Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2021-01-20
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=77
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. water quarry intake design build GMP, which stands for guaranteed minimum price contract. The board's authorization on Tuesday, January 19, 2020, will enable staff to finalize negotiations and execution of an agreement with the orders construction Wally Wilson design build team and to enter into the final phase of the Peckinwater plant quarry intake, which includes design, completion, and full construction to implement the quarry intake design. Upon execution of this final phase of the quarry intake design build contract, construction for all aspects of the Peckinwater treatment plant and quarry intake will be fully authorized. Pipeline. Pipeline work is slated to begin within weeks, and the larger construction activity on the membrane water treatment plant and the quarry intake will begin early March at the latest. The complete project will be completed, operational, and delivering finished water to the fabric water customers by April 15, 2022. The October operation support. Customers. The overall cost of the plant will be $4.49 million per day. The water production average is over 17,095 connections per day. The monthly water production average is 5.994 million gallons per day. The quarries stay in excellent shape because we do have a good water level in the ground. Water production, the James H. Diehl plant, 2.499 million gallons per day. The James T. Anderson plant, 2.833 million gallons per day. day and we purchased from the City of Winchester 0.662 million gallons per day. And mark the rainfall in December is 3.9 inches which was up from November's 2.78 inches. A note here, Stephen City monthly average gallons per day of the sanitary flow for December was 320,212 gallons which exceeds the town's wastewater capacity limitation of 250,000 gallons per day. Three consecutive months of exceedance will require that the town not issue any new wastewater connections until 12 months. Mr. Chairman that concludes my report. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate that. The next one on our list is Winchester Planning. We have no transportation and so I'll do Mr. Planning. I'll fill in for Mr. Mark Loring from the City. They had a public session on January 19, 2021. They had election of officers for 2021. The chairman was Mark Loring, vice chairman, chairwoman excuse me, is Lacey Burnett. The second item they with motion to initiate an ordinance repealing and replacing the land for the city of Winchester. The second item they with motion to initiate an ordinance repealing and replace the land for the city of Winchester. The second item they with motion to initiate an ordinance repealing and replacing article 17 of the zoning ordinance of the city of Winchester. Virginia, this amendment updates and improves regulations regarding non conformities in the Winchester zoning ordinance and it was initiated. The third item was a corridor enhancement review of an 8-unit townhouse development at 811 South Cameron Street. That also was initiated. So that concludes their report. They cannot be with us tonight. And the last one on my report, Mr. Graber, do you you have a report from the Board of Supervisors? I don't have any report, but I did want to pass along to Mr. Ruddy, as I believe this will be his last meeting, maybe. I've greatly appreciated the opportunity to work with him and his professionalism and the kind things that he has done for our community members along the way. He will be missed, and he has been greatly appreciated with my opportunity to work with him and this board. So thank you, Mr. Ruddy, for all the things that you've done. Thank you, sir. I will do a quick housekeeping back on committee assignments. I kind of skipped over that. We do have some new members I need to bring on. One is Ms. Kozel out here. I will be assigning her to the Development Review and Regulations Committee. It's where she'll be appointed to. I'll put Ms. Catherine Slaughter. She has been appointed to the Comp Plan Committee, CPPC, and I will also be removing John Light off of the Comp Plan Committee. And all other assignments will stay the same. I'll just freeze them in place until it's such time I get to talk to each one of you to see your committee assignments, and we'll go from there. So just a little housekeeping there that I skipped over at that point. Our next item on the agenda is citizen comments. At this time, anybody would like to come forward, speak before the commission about any items that's not on our agenda tonight, please feel free to come forward. Seeing no one, I'll close the citizen comment portion. Our next item on the agenda. Is a public hearing for the Green Spring Agricultural and Forestry District Edition. Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This. Can you hear me? Yeah, I can hear you. This is an addition to the. Let me see if I can get the slide to work here. This is a request for an addition to the Green Spring Agricultural and Forestry District. And this is to add 90.86 acres to that district. The district is located in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. It currently contains 385.63 acres with two parcels managed by two property owners. It is generally located along Glades Orchard Road and south of the Green Springs Road to the east. This request is to increase the district to 400. And 76.49 acres. What happened, Mr. Chairman, is, as you know, we had our ag and forest districts were updated a couple months ago. So the two applications you see in front of you tonight were applicants who didn't get their applications in on time and actually fell through the cracks. So this is just to add on. As you're well aware, we do sometimes get additional through the cycle, five year cycle. We'll get some folks to ask for additional acres to be in the district or be included in the district. This is, if I can turn your attention to the map on your left, it's circled on the lower right there. That is along the Green Springs District. And again, this is just an addition. There's no change. And then we're going to increase the district. The Agricultural District Advisory Committee, or ADAC, unanimously recommend the approval of the 90.86 acres to the 2020-2022 district. This is after the 25. Green Springs Agricultural Forest District, after a meeting that they held on December 15, 2020. Again, this is a request. It is presented. A public hearing has stopped us seeking a recommendation for the planning commission to the Board of Supervisors on this addition to the Green Springs Agricultural Forest District. Mr. Chairman, I ask any questions that you or any board members may have on this addition to the Green Springs Agricultural Forest District. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Any questions? Mr. Chairman? Seeing no one, thank you, sir. Okay. Yes. Go. I'll make a motion. No, we gotta open the public hearing first. Oh. That's all right. I like your enthusiasm. At this time, it is a public hearing item. I will open the public hearing. Anybody would like to come forward to speak two or four against this item? So the public hearing is open. Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing. And now we're going to be, Mr. Triplett, this is Gainsborough District. Yes. You're right. I make the motion to approve this addition to the Greenspring Agriculture and Forestal District. Second. Motion. I got a second. I'll start down with Mr. Klein. Arndt, yes. Cozell, yes. Jewell, yes. Marston, yes. Madden, yes. Oates, yes. Thomas, yes. Triplett, yes. Mohn, yes. Dawson, yes. Morrison, yes. Moulden, yes. Chair votes yes. It passes. It goes on to the Board of Supervisors. Any other questions? I don't have my list right in front of me here, but it goes on to the Board of Supervisors to approve on February 10th. Thank you, sir. Next item, another public hearing item, South Frederick Agricultural and Forestal District addition. Mr. Cherin. Thank you again, Mr. Chairman. Again, this is a request to add one parcel of 200 acres to the South Frederick Agricultural and Forestal District. The district is located within a Back Creek Magisterial District and currently contains 6,000 acres. The district is located along the Cedar Creek grade, Middle Road, Marlboro Road, and Heights Road. It's our bigger agricultural and forestal district we have in the county. This request will increase the district to the 6,890 acres. We had the 200 in here. And if I can direct your attention to the map on the left, it's circled, as I pointed out, the South Frederick is one of our largest districts. And this is just an example. In addition, again, this applicant did not get the application in on time. Actually, they were probably about a month late. Again, that's why you're seeing it tonight. The Agricultural and Forestal Advisory Committee, or ADAC, unanimously recommended approval of this 200 acres to be added to the 2020-2025 South Frederick Agricultural and Forestal District at their meeting that was held at December 15, 2020. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have a question for the public hearing. yearly plan and commission staff is seeking recommendation from the planning commission to forward their board of supervisors on this addition to South Frederick Agricultural and Forestal District. Mr. Chairman, I'll answer any questions you or any of the planning commissioners may have on this addition. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any questions? Anyone? Commissioners? Thank you, sir. There's a public hearing item. hearing item I'll open the public hearing for anyone who would like to come forward please do so at this time I see no one will close the public hearing and this is back Creek mr. chairman sir I'd like to keep mine bigger than Chuck so I make a motion that we approve the addition to the South Frederick AG district second motion in a second I will start mr. moan yes yes Thomas yes yes yes Julie yes Moulton yes Morrison yes Dawson yes chair votes yes motion is approved items approved it goes also on the February 10th docket for the board of supervisors next items information discussion please item mr. Klein we got site plan number 18-20 for Cincinnati place mr. chairman I need to recuse myself from this item thank you sir yes good evening mr. chairman members of the Planning Commission this is an item being presented to you all this evening for information and this is a proposal to develop 63 multifamily housing units as a senior residential development and a church on four point nine seven acres of land zoning and a residential development plan zoned RP residential performance when processing a site plan in lieu of a master development plan the site plan must be presented to the Planning Commission and the Board of Supervisors as an informational item the site plan as proposed implements proffers associated with rezoning application o to 18 for the project known as st. Paul on the hill directing your attention to the screen on the left the subject property is a residential development project in the city of Cincinnati the site plan is a residential development project in the city of Cincinnati the site plan includes a 16-story building and a two-story building it is located with frontage on Cincinnati Road immediately to the west of Williams Place and to the east of the Cincinnati Road School the site plan includes 63 multifamily residential housing units again for senior housing as specified in the proffer statement a second it also includes the requisite buffering and screening as required for the zoning ordinance for the development in relation to the adjoining properties staff would note that the applicant and owner has requested a zoning district buffer modification from the Board of Supervisors per the exemption contained in the zoning ordinance section 203.02 c7 where an existing utility in this case a sanitary sewer conflicts with the buffer area or in this case it crosses the buffer area near the adjoining townhome development the applicant has proposed continuation of their six-foot-tall privacy fence be provided along the buffer but due to the utility placement they are unable to plant the required planting elements directing your attention to the screen this is an overview again of the project layout for orientation since any road again forms the property frontage and includes that right away dedication for the future widening of Cincinnati Road it also includes a 10-foot hiker biker path a as required for improved roadways. The main church is here and the residential building is to the rear of the church. Again, there are sidewalks provided for internal circulation and the area where they are seeking a buffer modification for the Board of Supervisors, for your information, is right here. It's an area again where there's a shared common buffer with the adjoining townhome development. The site plan for Cincinnati Place is consistent with the approved proffers approved with rezoning 02-18 for St. Paul's on the hill and with the requirements of Article 8 development plans and approvals of the Frederick County zoning ordinance and the site plan is in a form that is administratively approvable by staff. The site plan is presented to the Planning Commission this evening for information and no action from the Planning Commission is required as part of the consideration of the zoning plan. The site plan is presented to the Planning Commission this evening for information and no action from the Planning Commission is required as part of the consideration of the site plan. Any comments you may have I'd be happy to convey this to the Board. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Thank you Mr. Klein. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Mr. Klein, did they ever determine who's going to furnish water and sewer to this? They did in fact. The applicant applied for a waiver from Frederick Water to use the City of Winchester utilities. They were denied and they will be connecting to Frederick Water Sanitary Sewer and Water Services. Thank you. Mr. Klein, you said right there on the front and you said it was dedicating a right-of-way for a future improvement so will the improvement of Cincinnati Road be part of this project when it's being done at that time or will it? It's for a future improvement at such time that Cincinnati Road is planned to be widened. The right-of-way for that widening will be provided along the frontage. They will dedicate it but they're not making the improvement. They are making some turn lane improvements and improving the commercial entrance that is currently there. But they're not doing the full widening. I mean I'm sorry they'll provide the asphalt but there won't be like active travel lanes as part of their their improvements but they will do the improvement. Say that again. They are doing the widening but they're not constructing the improvements in the median and on the other side of the road. They're just providing the pavement width and the curb and gutter as part of their frontage improvement. They're doing the widening. On their side?嘛. On their side yes. part of their frontage improvements. We'll or not having access to the food facility up ahead? On their side, yes, but they are not doing the median and the other. Okay, on the other side. Yes. They're just doing to get the entrance in and what have you there. Yes, sir, that is correct. Okay, all right. Any other questions? Mr. Morrison. When this came up initially, there were some traffic concerns. Did VDOT approve this as is, with Cincinnati Road being a fairly heavily traveled road and then adding another 60-some units coming in and all that? VDOT was part of the review of the site plan, and they did approve the entrance as it's drawn on the plans. Any other questions for Mr. Klein? So the discussion item, is there any other discussion? Thank you, sir. One more item under our information discussion items. We'll call on Mrs. Perkins. She'll present the 2021-2026 Capital Improvement Plan. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. As you stated, this is a discussion for the 2021-2026 Capital Improvement Plan. Now, the CIP is a document that consists of a schedule of major capital expenditures for the county for the ensuing five-year period. As well, there's also a category in the tables for long-range projects, which are six-plus years out. Now, with the CIP, like I said, there's rankings and priorities that are submitted by each department that are shown in the tables, but it should be noted that the inclusion of the projects in the CIP is in no way an indication that Frederick County will be undertaking these projects. The CIP is strictly an advisory document. It is intended for use as a capital planning facilities document, not for requesting funding allocations. Once adopted, the project priorities, and cost estimates are subject to change throughout the year based on different circumstances. It's also possible that particular projects may not be funded during the year shown, indicated in the CIP, and it could be bumped to a following year with the next CIP or completely removed. Now, the CIP, as always, continues to reinforce the connection with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. It does, as it applies to future development considerations such as rezonings. Now, this year, there are 54 projects contained within the CIP. There's a number of different agencies that participate in this process, public schools, parks and recreation, the library, county administration, fire and rescue, the sheriff's office, public safety communications, transportation, and the airport. Now, these different groups are broken down into three different tables based on where their funding typically comes from. First, the two-page table, which is your general government experience, and then the table that's the general government expenditure, that's schools, parks, library, fire and rescue, the sheriff, public safety, and county administration. The next table is transportation and airport, due to the fact that transportation and airport typically have other funding sources. So, I won't go into these. These are just snapshots of the tables in the CIP. I won't go through any of those particular ones unless you want me to. Pretty much at the end of table one is the general government expenditure, and then 312. And then the next table is the general government expenditure, and then 312. That's $319 million. $316 million was last year. This year is at 339, but we do have a drop in projects from, let's see, 82 last year, down to 54 this year. And then, again, you do have transportation and the airport. There's a series of maps that also correspond to these tables and the projects. First, you do have the general CIP map, which is the general government expenditures. You have the school map. You have parks and recreation. And then you have the school map. the transportation priorities. Well, the history of where this has been, the Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee discussed this at their January 11th meeting. The committee did determine that CIP is in conformance with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, then they did send it forward to the Planning Commission for discussion. So tonight we are seeking a recommendation from the Commission on the CIP as well as affirmation that the 2021-2026 CIP is in conformance with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. So with that, I would be glad to answer any questions you may have, and I do believe we have some representatives in the audience as well. Questions for Ms. Perkins. Mr. Chairman. Yep. About how much does the county spend every year on capital improvements for items that were on the Capital Improvements Plan that was approved 30 years ago? That I couldn't tell you, unfortunately. I don't have the figure of what was on last year's CIP or that was actually funded during the last year. I think it was in the last budget cycle. But I would be glad to send you that as a follow-up if you'd like. Where is the, I mean, certainly the county's not going to fund 300 plus million dollars' worth of capital improvements. Where do they come up with the plan of actually what's going to be funded and built? Right. And that comes through, you know, these are the priorities for each of the agencies within the county. It's kind of just a five-year list of things that they would like to see happen, and they do rank that. And then there's different allocations based on each fiscal year of what they would theoretically, if those projects were to come before the board during a budget cycle. So really they just come from the rankings of what the agencies want to see in a perfect world. And they're really necessary to be included in the CIP as part of the comprehensive plan just when dealing with rezonings and the models and how rezoning applications will compare with their impacts. Question? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The questions? Again, this is just a function of our, make sure we conform to our comp plan. And so this is a requirement of the Code of Virginia. So thank you, Ms. Perkins. Any other discussion? Mr. Oates? Last bullet seeking recommendation. Do we need to make a motion about that, or? Yes, we need a recommendation to the Planning Commission or affirmation that the CIP is in conformance with the comprehensive plan. 2021-2026 comprehensive plan. Is in conformance with our comprehensive plan. Second. Second. Do we need a roll vote or can we do a majority vote? All those in favor of our motion presented, say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion will go to the Board of Supervisors also on our February 10th docket, the capital improvement plan. We're always down to that famous other part of our meeting. And I think tonight we have, I don't think we have a meeting scheduled for our February 3rd. We have a meeting scheduled for the next meeting. We have a meeting scheduled for the next meeting. We have a meeting scheduled for the next meeting. It's a, seeing a firm no from the, Mr. Ruddy. It gives me a moment then to thank, recognize Mr. Ruddy for his service to us, to what he has did to help me along personally, but also to his service to Frederick County and the Planning Commission and the Planning Department. We say a hearty thank you and Godspeed in your future endeavors. And it's been a pleasure working with you and good luck to you and your family. So thank you so very much. Thank you, sir. Thank you. And with that, Al and Mr. Morrison. I need a buzzer. Yes, I'm sorry. So far away. Question came up last year late on the Stephen City project where they utilized TDRs. And then two weeks ago in the Winchester Star, there was a very nice opinion article in there that I felt very supportive of the gentleman's article. When the TDRs came up several years ago, I can see great benefits to them, but I can see abuses in them. And I think we saw pretty much all of the one and none of the other in this one that we did last year. Everything was done legally. It was done by the book. It was perfect. We had no input to it. And I would really like us possibly with this newer, information. History to possibly do a review on our TDR regulation to see if we can tweak this a little bit. Sir, I agree 100%. We've already had those discussions in the month of December. And it'll be one of our another bullet items we'll be discussing this year and try to work through and see where it can be approved and what we can tweak it and see where we're at. So yes, sir. I agree with you. And we'll be working on that. Thank you, sir. If no. One house said anything else. Anything else to add to the cause is our good friend Jim Wilmot would say. I'll seek a motion for adjournment. So moved. Have a second. All those in favor. We're adjourned.
