Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2026-05-06
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=346
========================================================================

May 6th Planning Commission meeting. I'd like to invite Pastor Ross Halbersma forward to lead us in the invocation. Thank you. Will you stand, please? Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, you are not only God of this earth, but you are God of the universe. And that's a huge place. Tonight, as there's deliberation about this place on planet earth, might there be good questions, good listening, good understanding, transparency, because we are neighbors. And that is so important. And so where we can't agree or choose not to agree, may we also be kind. Thank you for those who serve. And I would ask in the name of Jesus, you would put blessing in their life. Thank you for this wonderful place we call home. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Please join us with the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Do we have any revisions to the agenda as published? If not, if we could have a motion to adopt the agenda. So moved. Second. Okay. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Thank you. At this point, we'll have the committee reports. Conservation Easement Authority, Mr. Mark. Yes, thank you. Yes, thank you. Yes, thank you. So, we met on the 20th. No, 30th. I can't read my own writing. And the next meeting is May 28. They talked about rural preservation and the agricultural development and the agri-tourism as they're bringing those forward as much as they can. The whole objective here is to make sure that we have a sustainable future for the people of North Dakota, and we have to do that. We need to do that. We need to do that. to make having open space and open land worth the money. That's no small task, and they're wrestling with it. They're looking for ideas to come up with for alternative uses once the land is designated as a conservation easement. So they're not only spending some time and energy educating everybody about what the Conservation Easement Authority is and what it can do, but they're looking up for ideas, and they're also looking into the GIS mapping as a source to do some overlays so that they can better understand what's available, what's been done, and what opportunities are. And the event is progressing to have a program that's going to be in the presence at the Bell Grove. And all of that's on track for the purpose of educating the community and even finding people who are willing to donate to it. There's a way to make sure to help easements happen by the general public donating to purchase those easements, because that's how it works is a landowner is willing to sell the easement for a price, a fair price, and the easement authority wants to get as much rural land as they can with easements on it so they won't be developed into residential communities. So that's an ongoing effort, and that's what their focuses are. Thank you. Frederick Water, Mr. Bartoff? Yeah. Frederick Water met on April 21st. We had a work session at 2 with a presentation from Wiley Wilson regarding the East Pit Initiative. Moving forward, that project, which basically the first part draws, has a pump station drawing off the Apecan Creek, and we'll be sending water up to the East Pit. That'll come up at next week, next Tuesday, for approval of the construction and build. The other item is we signed an agreement with Carmoose and extended the northern lease for the Anderson plant, and so that took effect 1st of May, and we did approve the fiscal budget for 27. Thank you. Yep. Let's see. Development and review didn't meet. Comprehensive. Comprehensive. Plans and programs did not meet. Transportation committee, does staff have a report for that since Tim's not here? Apologies, Mr. Vice Chairman, but I wasn't present, and Mr. Bishop's not here. Okay. Thank you. Also, it looks like we don't have a city liaison here tonight. I'll move on to, is there any other committee reports that I missed? Thank you. We'll move on to the Board of Supervisors report. Okay. All right. Supervisor Orndorff. Mr. Vice Chairman and members or commissioners, Board of Supervisors met on April 22nd. There were no action items from the Planning Commission on the board, so my report is very short and sweet. Nothing to report. Thank you. Move on to the citizen comment portion, and I would just remind everyone this is a time for citizen comments on anything that is not on the agenda tonight. If you want to speak on one of the items, one of the four items on the agenda, you will get an opportunity during the public meeting of that item. So if there's anything else you would like to talk to the Planning Commission about tonight, please come forward, state your name and your magisterial district. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have a sign-up list to get us started as well, so I'll read those names, and then anybody who wants to come up after can. So Jody Zite. Thank you, Vice. Good evening. Thank you for your time. The zoning change that's being framed as progress for data centers comes with permanent consequences that cannot be undone. Data centers are not quiet neighbors. They operate 24-7 with continuous mechanical cooling systems and large backup generators that produce persistent, low-frequency noise. I'm a nerd, so let me tell you about low-frequency noise. It cannot be stopped by simple buffers. The wavelengths are very long, and it can go around air and sound and anything that we put in its way. Think about a party. You don't hear the lyrics, but you hear the thump. We can hear the drone from these. Studies show this type of noise travels further and is more disruptive than traffic, especially in rural environments like ours, where background noise levels are higher than normal. The noise levels are low. What is peaceful now will not remain. Water is my main concern. Modern data centers can consume millions of gallons of water per day, and I know what they said last night, but I have talked to other data centers in the Prince William County area. I have visited some and talked to executives there. Have you? That demand does not disappear during drought. It competes directly with our wells, agriculture, and emergency reserves. For the first time in over 20 years, Virginia is needing to tap into our aquifers instead of just pulling water from the rivers. Due to the drought alone, we've been on water restriction for the better part of five years. Why are we bringing these things in that suck up so much water? It is a measurable strain on a finite source, and there's energy load. We know that they require enormous continuous electricity supply, equipment, and energy. They are equivalent to that of small cities. Side note, the research I've done has showed that water use is the same as small cities, as big as the size of Manassas. Light pollution is another permanent impact. These facilities are brightly lit all night long, visually industrial, and once built, they will fundamentally alter the rural landscape and ecosystem, affecting wildlife and our health. The generators can emit nitrogen particles, which are also dangerous to breathe in. How much research have you done on your own, and not just from listening to these companies? We would love to team up with you to learn more about what is beneficial for our county. What is the return? They are capital-intensive, but not labor-intensive. And after construction, they generate relatively few permanent jobs. Again, putting aside what they said last night and talking to actual data centers that are in service, we are now working with the state to build a new system of infrastructure that will be in service now to scale the land use, infrastructure strain, and environmental cost. This is not balanced growth. It is a long-term trade of water, our health, quiet, and our rural character for short-term tax gains and minimal employment benefit. Once this zoning is changed and these facilities are built, there is no going back. Just drive east on 66. I do every workday, and it's horrible. The question is not whether we can build them, but whether we can make those facilities as sustainable as possible. This is a long-term problem that is not going to be solved unless it is given the lasting cost to the people who already live here. It is going to damage their lives, not help them. Thank you. Thank you. Jennifer Smith. And I forgot to mention that we're going to limit everyone's comments to three minutes, please. So, my name is Jennifer Smith. I live in Clear Brook, and my backyard butts up to this massive, massive data center that's in being proposed. I find it very disheartening. I've come before you guys multiple times for the substation, now for the data center that is now going to be proposed behind us. We have the substation in front of us. And I feel like that you guys are basically trading money for the health and the well-being of your citizens. You're not thinking about us. It doesn't matter about the farmers. It doesn't matter about the land. It doesn't matter about the impact on us. It's honestly just a dollar amount. And if people suffer for that, and it's not you guys who have to live next to it, it really doesn't matter. The aggravation and frustration that I've had coming before you guys to speak multiple times is mind-blowing. The zoning... When you look at why you guys look to zone stuff and the things that you take into consideration, there's facts out there. There's scientific data. There's evidence that what they provide you with this information does not come true. And everything gets overlooked. Data centers are being sued. They're losing and having to pay out costs to communities because of this. And you can't fix that after it's done. We live on well, or all of our neighbors do. So what happens to us? When our water supply gets contaminated? Who's going to help us? What are you guys going to do for that? Who's going to be liable when the stuff that they promised doesn't happen? What if technology goes forward and that 20-year period of some 200 and some million dollars doesn't actually happen because AI pushes forward? Or it exceeds the electricity that they're demanding now because we're not going to be able to do that. So I'm not going to be able to do that. I'm not going to be able to put equity in an aggregate gratefulness like that so that in this context, that goes up and in that quick so it's more advanced technology comes out and they need more energy. More water. And they exceed those demands. We were threatened for electricity to be cut of Sub落 at the coldest part of� ох fridge both electrical company were going to shut off homes. What eare ee're goingu do about that surface so we can lose our electricity. But in the demand is too high, but never been a keep thirst. Those of things you can sit better than the people elected to represent. at times. sacrifice us for a company. You don't sacrifice our money, our investment in our homes, our peace, our health, our well-being, and the jobs that people have here for a multi-million dollar company. That's not who you are here to represent. It's us. And that is extremely frustrating because you guys are not thinking about us. They brought forward something for you to propose to and you denied it. And it wasn't a data center because it didn't meet what you asked. And you told them to go back and come back with something like a data center. That is unacceptable. Thank you. Sherry Wernicke. Mine is not near as prepared as everyone else. My name is Sherry Wernicke. I'm in the Back Creek District. And mine is pretty short and simple. I believe in the good of people. I believe you want to do good for people. My family did foster care for almost 20, 25 years. And I always taught my kids, people come first. Money never comes first. To me, when the money comes first, evil comes in. So I'm just asking you, I love that you opened up with prayer. I love that you are a people of God. I love that people are important to you. But money cannot come first, or it's going to lead to all bad things. So please, I just wanted to go on record saying that I am a against these centers and that I hope you do put people first because that's what really matters. Thank you. Julia Hayes. Julie Hayes, Redbud and I just have one comment. The other two if they ran over can have my time. I just don't for the life of me understand how anyone could be willing to jeopardize people's health. That I just don't get that but I do want to thank you all last night because I do feel like you all held their feet to the fire and asked some very thoughtful questions. So I just hope you guys do the right thing and don't allow these to come into Winchester Frederick County. Thank you. Thank you. Teresa and I'm sorry I know who you are but I can't pronounce your nice name with an O. Teresa. Teresa. Teresa. Yep. So they're covering a lot of basics. Teresa could we hear you say your last name please? Ostrtag. Thank you. So they've covered a lot of things that I was going to speak about but there's one thing I could speak about they haven't. So yesterday they talked about a new technology that they didn't really specify exactly what it was but that it creates less noise. I would suggest that you ask more questions. That you ask the name of the equipment, the manufacturer of the equipment, where it is located now currently running. Can you tour it and see it run? Can you see how much water that it actually used? Watch the process. They're going to load it. Maybe stay with it for a week. See what it takes to run it because they act like you fill it once, it's good to go, it doesn't evaporate and they don't drain it which we all know that's not true. Their numbers were over three million. Three hundred thousand gallons on the proffer and then they changed it here for a hundred and some thousand gallons and they said most of it will be going to employees or just extra just in case. Well we know ten buildings with data centers, I mean ten data center buildings, it's going to require a lot of water. They act like it doesn't but we need to push to get this really, really, really important information. You just can't take people's word for it. You just can't take it. It's like car salesmen. They're going to tell you what you want to hear and then you're going to be stuck with a lemon and we're talking about people that are going to have to suffer including you guys if you live here. I mean we're all going to suffer in one way or another and I'm hoping that you guys take a lot of this to heart. Also the seventy decibels. They had it on the proffer. I don't know if that was changed before the end of the meeting but I looked it up and nighttime decibels should be fifty thousand. So that's a lot of noise. So I think that should be added. And then also a lot of problems that might occur. We're going to be checking back to see if they're following but what if they don't? What if the noise is loud and you report it like it was recommended? The only answer is a fine. Can we shut them down? Because they like paying fines. They don't care. The residents won't be helped by that fine. So what are repercussions? So I think that's a very good point. Because once they're here you guys, we all will have to suffer whatever they create. That's it. Thank you. Thank you. Jack Tensley. Hello. My name is Jack Tensley. I'm in the Gainesboro district. I'm a resident of the city of Virginia. And I go to a lot of city council meetings. I go to a lot of the board's meetings and just thank you all. You all pay attention. It seems like you're listening to us actively, which is really nice. So thank you for being here and giving us this time. I don't know. I have a lot to say. We've got all the issues with pollution. They're really big important issues. When you think about all of the other times that you this is bigger than us. So let me start there. These data centers run all the way through Virginia. Into West Virginia. They're planning two or three right over the state line in Berkeley County. People there are fighting. People there throughout the state are fighting. And the governor there has made it basically illegal for people to fight against these things. But here in Virginia, we have the ability to fight. And here in Virginia, people have fought and won, like someone was mentioning earlier. Prince William County. I think somewhere out in Fairfax. These data centers are kind of losing over and over. And it's on these zoning issues. So we don't want to really spend I don't want to keep coming down here. I know you all don't want to listen to this stuff over and over all the time. But the data centers are going to lose one way or the other. The people are against them. It's very obvious. These meetings should be boring and nobody should be showing up because they're that's just how it has historically been. I've been to a lot of them and there's a lot of people here. So my point here is, like, let's just get over it and say, you know, we're going to fight. We're just waiting. Okay. Sorry, guys, can we have a lunch break? Because I think people are still dying. Experience the medical impact here is awesome. And, you know, I think seeing those reports of the Wik sharpers and what we're able to tell people this week, the health care experts, it just really Lakeland has everything that's taken away from people on this project. Like, that's what we're Jimăm, all my friends that work at i提 to alc. And so this is a progressive pauper hospitals that tell them about its impact on the bioenergy climate. Because, while they're fighting right now, they because they are where they were at writing when it comes down to their medical staff, they're fighting with people. And so, you know, so, uh, there's just kind of a battle right there. Association, that grade's going to go down. Not only that, but it took Flint, Michigan, 11 years to get their water corrected. And they had way more support than what I assume that we would have money-wise. Somebody talked about what are we going to do when the electricity starts to, these rolling blackouts that have happened and will happen, especially with the weather changing constantly. Y'all, you live here, you know what it was like over the last three weeks. Winter's going to be the same thing. Higher demand. People are going to run out of that. But the really big thing is, in Michigan, they had a data center that promised 1,000 jobs and delivered 26. So we can't go on promises like the other person mentioned here. And with three minutes, that's all I could vomit out. But I just want to say, the other thing that really makes me want to vomit is data centers. I do not want something that feeds Google, Microsoft, and Facebook all of everyone's information. Right here in Frederick County. So please, thank you. Thank you. Doug Mullins. Hello and thank you. Doug Mullins from the Gainesville District. I live about a mile away from the proposed location. First, I'd love to ask a question. Thank you. I'm going to ask a question about data centers. I think that's possible. And that is, last night's meeting, was that probably the largest crowd you've had for a non-commit work session? No? Okay. I'm new to these, so it seemed like it was pretty evident that the people that were here were here to show support of not having a data center. One thing I'd love to piggyback off of Mr. Crane's question is, you asked a question regarding data centers. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good offer and I'm a good person and I'm a good person myself. So please, I'd love to see if it's got to do with real estate and around the data centers' real estate. The question really didn't get answered. And I think the problem I have with that is that's the pure definition of planning. Right? To understand what the impact is going to be to real estate, to other things outside of just water, energy. Right? These types of things, for the community that is going to be around this data center, is hugely impacting. Yeah. in real estate. She's totally against this. She knows our house is gonna take as far as pricing. So take that in consideration when you're looking at this is impacts outside of just water, sewer, energy. Thank you. Thank you. That's the end of the list Mr. Vice Chairman. Thank you. I would remind everybody if you're not aware of it. Tomorrow evening at 630 at James Wood High School there's a community information exchange on data centers and since most of the comments tonight were on data centers I would encourage everyone who's interested to please attend that. It's a it's put on by the county. The panel is are non data center people so they should be hopefully telling you facts and not just emotional. issues trying to get money from anybody so I would encourage anybody who wants to learn more about data centers in Frederick County to please attend that meeting tomorrow night. And I guess we still have some folks who didn't sign up but would like to speak. Please give us your name, magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes. My name is Alexander Ritter. I reside in the Opecan district. I attended the district for five years and have been here for a decade now. I attended the district for five years and have been here for a decade now. I attended the district for five years and have been here for a decade now. I attended the meeting last night and I want to thank you all for raising very important questionants. You certainly left Equius, if that's how you say it correctly, with plenty of work to do before the next meeting. But I also left the meeting with a clear picture of where the gaps are and I believe that those gaps are where Equius will strategically work and reshape the narrative before next month's meeting. So I want to speak on those gaps and make a recommendation to this commission. Last night, closed loop cooling was mentioned. But nobody really asked, as far as I'm concerned, what that means operationally. A closed loop system is not a single technology. And the type of system in place determines the actual water impact and Equius has not specified which type the end user would be using. Some of those systems lose significant water to evaporation and blow down. Some require chemical treatment, as I believe was mentioned. But when asked, they said they didn't want to specify because technology is always advancing. I'd encourage this commission to take that claim seriously and research what those advances actually look like. And to hold them to that standard of advanced technology that they are claiming. And while we may not be able to mandate specific cooling technologies under Dylan's role, that may not be correct, but we can absolutely require disclosure. And their reluctance to provide specifics is inadequate. And on noise, Kearns raised the topic of frequency. And I'm really not going to go over it that much. Because other people mentioned it. But I also feel that the current enforcement. Mechanism. A complaint driven mechanism. Where a resident complains and investigation is triggered and a potential violation is issued would be inadequate. Particularly because low frequency, the kind of low frequency mechanical noise, it travels farther, penetrates structures. But it also may not seem loud. So without any, you know, control. Continuous monitoring. I feel like enforcement would be nonexistent. And people spoke on the whole jobs topic. So I'm not going to address that. But what I do want to say is that hyper scale data centers are not standard industrial facilities. They pose problems. I believe our current zoning ordinances and comprehensive plan are not equipped to address. We are currently actively updating both of those. So. I'm asking. Is to consider that. Thank you. Hi. My name is Rebecca Miley. I am from the redbud district. I'm here tonight to just voice my concern about the data centers. I moved here 12 years ago because of the beauty of the area and because there's family. And I would hate to see. The data. The data centers. Get a foothold here. Change it. The whole. Like landscape of the area. A lot of people I believe have moved here to get away from that. I personally am from New Jersey originally. So lots of industry there. Lots of superfund sites. I don't want to see this area become that. Something that raised concern on a different level because I don't think that we've approved the data centers. I was looking at my personal property tax. And the rateables. Data center was listed. I don't understand how it could be already listed. And the rate. For the hundred thousand dollars is extraordinarily low. So if you're doing it. Or thinking to take this. Make this decision. To make money for the county. I know there is a 41 million dollar shortfall. They have to make up somewhere in the budget. I don't think this is a route. I think you can. There's lots of other options. Agritourism something along that line. So that's my two cents. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Kurt Krieger. I live in the back creek. Magisterial district. I'd like to speak a little bit about the number of generators proposed. At the Virginia technology center. As you will recall. Two hundred eighty eight generators. Explicitly diesel fired generators. And there was quite a bit of. Confusion. Even when. Commissioner Kern's drilled down on the inconsistencies between their written. Application and their verbal representation that they were representing the best. Technology. But they had actually written not the same technology. It was actually. A tier two versus a tier four. So the question is. The question is. Notwithstanding that inconsistency, it's already been mentioned that you have a complaint-driven system. If someone is suffering from cortisol hypertension due to subsonic low-frequency noise, they aren't going to be complaining about it. They're going to be ill, and they won't necessarily know what the illness was caused by. So the best practice in the industry is to do what we call a health impact assessment. A health impact assessment would look at the instance of childhood asthma. It would look at hypertension. It would look at cardiovascular disease voluntarily provided by the residents to establish a baseline of health in the neighborhood. Why is this important? This particular site adjoins residential, single-family residential neighborhood. Families purchase homes there, and with the data center, they very well likely won't be able to sell them, so they're going to have to sell them. They're going to have to suffer the consequences. So instead of using a complaint-driven system, I would recommend the best practice, which is establish a baseline of community health. You have a responsibility to protect the public health and safety of the residents. Therefore, it's not overreaching. It's not abusing the police power granted to you under the laws of Virginia. And having done this work in the state of Arizona before, this was actually funded by... a health foundation. We would do health impact assessments in neighborhoods throughout Phoenix, and we were measuring just the opposite, which was the improvement of health through community development. By establishing a baseline, at least you would know what the incidence of asthma is, what the incidence of hypertension is, what the incidence of cortisol is, and if it gets worse, then you can attribute it to a particular use. I would also say that establishing a well monitoring program, since they've already indicated their intention to use blasting to break up the limestone, which may disturb the area wells, I think you want to know what the static water level is on every domestic water well in the neighborhood. So that as that blasting occurs, there could be turbidity, there could be intrusion, and certainly the static water level may also fall. So I would recommend that as a baseline. I think that's the best way to do it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Gary Krause. I'm in the Shawnee District. One, my comments might be lighthearted, but I think they are due some serious consideration on what radical improvements might look like to the quality of life for Frederick County and what that means for your job as Planning Commission, and setting proffers and zoning regulations, and so on. Not just data centers, any large industrial scale building. I don't want to see that put on any agricultural land, and I stand by that still. But if we are to bring a data center in on existing industrial zones or another giant warehouse, that's a big gray box, consider making it required to look like a castle. And I mean that serious. I'm talking about six foot stone rampart walls surrounding it. It will block noise. It will prevent depreciation of the view shed. It will prevent the development of the water supply. It will prevent the irrigation of the view shed. Can you imagine what it would be for tourists to say, I went and got married in front of the castle in Frederick County? Right? So there are standards that you all set. There are standards that this county can find acceptable. I don't think that standard is, you know, changing any agricultural land in large swaths into industrial, whether that's data center, warehouses, or otherwise. But consider setting the bar incredibly high. Myself, my children will be in this county for as long as I live, hopefully. The Lord will be with us. The Lord willing. And there will be radical improvement to the quality of life for people here. It's just whether that radical improvement and those radical new ideas start now, or if they start five years from now, or ten years from now, and whether I have to push them through myself with other people that want to see radical improvement of the quality of life and not a degradation of quality of life here in Frederick County. So, yes, creating a castle in Frederick County out of a data center or a warehouse for industrial zones sounds ludicrous to some, I'm sure. But seriously, take it under control. But seriously, take it under consideration. What other radical requirements can you put on these builders that will make it a boon, an irrefutable boon for the county and not just for the companies and corporations that benefit from its operations? Thank you. Thank you. Hi. My name is Leslie Spencer from Gainesboro. That was quite hard to follow. I just wanted to thank you very much for how protective you were of our county last night. I loved it. I loved the strategy by the chairman, too. That was his thank you so much. I felt so many, like, as a feedback and a response to what happened is I felt that the applicant was very messy and not prepared at all. But is that talking about having a data center? Yes. That's a good point. I think it's a good point. I think that without having a data center there on that parcel, I don't believe that that's the best place for any high industrial use. The TM says low impact, and I don't even think data centers should be in the TM ordinance, or it should not say low impact. It needs to be cleaned up quite well. It doesn't go next to residential. In all these uses, M1, B3, where they're asking for a CUP to go, it just doesn't make any It should go in the heaviest industrial places, if we have any. And this shouldn't be our economic strategy, too. We have apple picking. We have cherry picking. We have peach picking. We have an apple blossom festival. We have the Hanley Library. We have this small, cute airport. We have so much high quality of life, so much agritourism. So we have a different pathway that's a lot cleaner and harmonious that we can share with our community. And thousands more jobs on 100 acres, too. As you probably are aware, I like to study the world's best data centers because I want to help change America through studying the best, the most ecological and sustainable. And so what I saw last night was just a mess. And there was nothing visionary about it. And I wouldn't take it seriously at all. He doesn't build data centers, you can tell. He builds probably other things much nicely. But, yeah, again, that is our entrance into the Shenandoah Valley. And we need to protect it. SB94. Senate Bill 94 says that you will do a study on water, groundwater, agriculture resources adjacent to a farmland, right? But that's adjacent to our highest corridor where thousands of people pass by every day on their way to agritourism in our county. What is going to happen if that's an industrial wasteland? Are people going to actually stop and say, oh, yeah, this looks like a great place to go apple picking, go to a winery, go to a flower farm? It could have a financial impact. It could have a financial impact for our county. What we look like is our first impressions is very important to that lot. Anyway, I probably missed something. Didn't write it down tonight. But thank you for all you do. And maybe just call me and I could tell you what to look for if another applicant comes. There's so much vision work that they need to do. And the energy crisis, 685 data centers in the state of Virginia. I wish I could help. Build water. Build one in Frederick County. But I think I have to help mitigate what we have in Nova already. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Aaron Fox, Back Creek District. I was here for the work session last night and I wanted to thank you all for your thoughtful questions and concerns. I think that you brought up most of the concerns that we have and I thought that it was great. I wanted to say in light of that that I cannot see how it's possible to approve this. And that we have to do another fair as credibly as we can. I would like to add that the county is not prepared for this rezoning request. Our county is not ready for this type of TM zone or data center projects. For a few different reasons. Number one, this industry is new relatively speaking. And we have only just started the process of addressing the necessary protections through ordinances. For example, we have addressed noise by only looking at the traditional definition of hazardous noise, which is the kind that we can hear that's annoying or damaging to our hearing. However, as a county, we haven't thoroughly looked into the total noise that was brought up last night and again tonight. heard. It's not often in our hearing range, but studies repeatedly show that our bodies register it, and our nervous systems react to it as a threat. Also, how our bodies react to this noise vibration at night versus during the day is different. We're not seeing this level of detail being discussed, and it's a matter of health and safety. As Leslie said, it was pretty messy last night on their end. The components of these data centers aren't really new, so I think that they've kind of flown in under the radar when it comes to safety concerns, but the size, the scope, and concentration are new. And so the impacts to environment and health are different. Number two, should data centers be in light industrial zones? According to the two industrial hygienists that we consulted with, the impacts and the power requirements alone make it heavy industrial. Should data centers be allowed by right in any zones? Three, some of this needs to be addressed at a deeper and a long-lasting level in the rewriting of the comp plan and our ordinance. For instance, I think we need to have a better and more precise vision for buffer zones in the areas that transition from residential or rural areas to residential areas. And so, we're going to be looking at that in the next couple of weeks. Number three, should data centers be in light industrial zones? According to the two industrial hygienists that we consulted with, the impacts and the power requirements alone make it heavy industrial zones. And so, we need to have a better vision for buffer zones in the areas that transition from rural to industrial. Both of the data center projects in the pipeline now are directly adjoining residential areas. We need industry, obviously, but we need to know that we're safe and we need to preserve our quality of life. The water discharge will need to be treated before it's allowed into the sewer system, according to Frederick Water. Is it practical to transport it offsite, as was mentioned last night? What chemicals are in it? If it's allowed in the public sewer, how will it be tested and how often? How much contamination would happen before it was discovered? These are the kinds of details that need to be fully explained by developers. And frankly, I was sitting right by them last night and they were pretty clueless when a lot of these questions were asked. And a lot of the questions were pretty basic. These are important details that are either going to cost them upfront or they're going to cost us in the long term. So, they're important. Having looked at other places where data centers are, just the unprecedented power demands on an already burdened system alone will affect the entire region. These far-reaching impacts are why we see scrambling at the state level to try to implement some sort of common sense protections and approval processes. So, should we be approving them in the meantime? I'm having a hard time seeing how that's ethical. Or should we be able to, should we recognize that these requests actually carry impacts far beyond us and they should be treated differently than typical rezoning or development approvals? These are just the tip of the iceberg because I have three minutes, five seconds left. There are too many questions, not enough answers, and it's moving way too fast. Thank you. Are there any other citizens that would like to comment? Again, I would remind everybody of the meeting tomorrow night, the Data Center Community Information Exchange Opportunity at 630 at James Wood High School. And we did limit comments to three minutes tonight. If anyone would like to send additional comments into the planning department, there is an opportunity through the e-comment portal that you could send additional comments if you would like to the planning department and they will distribute them. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hey, if you all have any questions, please leave a comment on the first item out of the item, or please leave a comment as soon as you make your decision to raise your question. At this point, I will close the citizen comment period and move on to the public hearing. The first item on the list is rezoning 0326 of Snowden Bridge Station, LLC. Mr. Bittner. Thank you, Mr. Vice Chairman. Eric Bittner, Planner 2. This is a request by Snowden Bridge Station, LLC, to rezone 1.61 acres from B-2 General Business with the Profitiens. property is located at 1818 Martinsburg Pike in the Stonewall Magisterial District. It was last rezoned in rezoning 0122. The intent of the rezoning is to erect an interstate or high-rise sign that can be visible from I-81. The property is identified in red on your screen in relation to the city of Winchester and to the bounds of Frederick County. This is a close-up of the property outlined in purple. It's at the intersection of Martinsburg Pike and Stonebridge Boulevard. This is an older aerial. The site has since been developed as a convenience store and gas refueling station, who are the ones seeking to erect the sign. The property is bounded entirely by B-2 General Business District. Staff do want to note that the property, 1800 Martinsburg Pike, is operating as commercial. However, 1784 Martinsburg, further south, and the adjacent southern properties are all residential uses, even though they're zoned as general business. The Northeastern Frederick County Land Use Plan identifies this entire area for business, and given its proximity to Exit 317 and Interstate 81, is intended to promote highway commercial businesses. It does also note, however, that the property is located at 1818 Martinsburg Pike. The including przest encourכשיו in North-cents, Lighthills, and South by Expect anecdotal operation, early days, and 21 tutaj es dollars, etc. up our market. Next slide. Thank you very much for joining us. reality. of the rezoning is that it's largely in conformance with the comprehensive plan and advances the northeast rhetoric area plan for interstate business there is a concern however that while the property doesn't enjoy any residential properties that would trigger an increase setback it is still near those uses and the proposal could impact them particularly with while the applicant is proposing a sign that's approximately four to six feet in height if approved the sign could be allowed approximately 110 feet in height depending on final grade uh for reference the existing interstate signs uh are also around 100 feet tall but none of them are near the uh residences on site uh that's particularly a concern given its proposed location of 11 feet from the right-of-way line along martinsburg pike for reference the existing monument signs are all located further than 100 feet from the right-of-way ideally that proposed location would be moved further back away from martinsburg pike in the residences this is a mock-up of the proposed sign staff do want to note that while this is what is being proposed there are no proffers binding them to this and the sign could be completely different this item is presented to you all as a public hearing item following which staff are seeking a recommendation from the planning commission to take to the board of supervisors whose public hearing is tentatively scheduled for june 10th at this point the applicant is present and staff are available for any questions thank you i would like to remind everyone i'm not sure we've had any ordinance or any requests come in for the inner inner inner section overlay district for the last number of years this ordinance was modified jeez i don't know how long ago 10 20 years ago i guess we developed this as an opportunity for businesses at interstate exits to be able to advertise for travelers up and down the interstate uh so there are specific requirements requirements for it as far as distance from the interstate and the intersection but this was developed specifically for this instance do we do we have any other questions for staff while we have the Commissioner de Haven Thank You mr. vice-chairman Thank You mr. Rittner one quick question you had noted that the proposed location from this sign is fairly close to the right-of-way on route 11 11 feet or so yes sir we've got some hopefully in the not-too-distant future some significant changes coming to the roadways down there some improvements hopefully to exit 317 as well as that red-bud road interchange do any of those improvements or plan changes have an effect on the that sign would that sign impede any possible or plans or conceived improvements that's a good question and you know the right-of-way acquisition there isn't any necessary along this particular section any other questions staff yes thank you thank you mr. vice chairman I have I guess two questions do you does staff know what the height this this says 46 feet there they're saying for you it's not a proffer they're just saying 46 feet they can go up to 110 feet do we know what the site heights are approximately do we know what the height is approximately of the other signs at that exit yes most of those signs are around 100 feet there's about 5 to 10 feet variation between that but that's the average height of those signs again they are located further back from the profit from the right-of-way line also it's estimated at 110 based on the existing grade the exact requirement at the exit exit 317 is they can go up to a hundred eight hundred and fifteen feet above sea level right now they're about seven hundred and five okay any or any of those signs on are any of those signs on that side of the interstate are they on the other side on that all of those signs are looking at the other side of IA1 there is one that is located over a thousand feet from the right-of-way that's about 70 feet high and that's the target and low sign okay thank you okay one question what is what challenges does the 11 feet from the right-of-way seem to bring to the table the primary concern is the aesthetic impacts and knock in form form II with the existing design of the area so far all the signs are located further away from Martinsburg Pike and generally that height is had been imposing to the residences so ideally those would be further back so it doesn't seem as imposing okay I'm not understanding that since if we move it further back when it still be on the same side that the two residences are on? Correct, yes, but it would be farther away from the residences. It's current location. The other side of the right-of-way is commercial, right? Correct, yes, sir. So we're moving it farther away from the commercial, but we're moving it parallel back the site, parallel to the residence. So it would essentially be the same distance from the two properties that are zoned commercial but have residences on them. So, yes, if you can see here, though, the line, it starts curving away from the houses. So as the sign moves back, it actually is moving further away. Even though it's moving parallel to the line, that line is at an angle. Okay. Okay. Thank you. I understand the comment now. Is there a distance that staff recommends? So we looked at the most recent sign, which was the Wawa Interstate sign that went up. It's about 168 feet from the right-of-way. Now, that's farther than how this property actually goes back. We would recommend somewhere within 100 feet. Okay. Thank you. Any additional questions? Any other questions of staff? Yes. Sorry. I have one more. Is this light going to be, I mean, it's right next to those houses. Is it going to be lit 24 hours a day? Is this backlit? Is this a lighted sign? So they are proposing for it to have digital components. Any lighting would need to be compliant with our lighting ordinance, so it would have to be downcast. And they do need to meet 0.5 foot candles at the property line. So I was just looking at the mock-up. And it looks like there's a lot of kind of white in the background. That's not backlit. That's not like lights behind all the panels. I would let the applicant answer that question. They may be more informed about the actual sign design than staff is. Is that allowed, though, for the sign to be lit? You can internally illuminate signs. I don't think there's any limitation on interstate overlay signs being internally illuminated. It's clear that there will be LED digital display pricing for the gas. But I'm not sure about the internal illumination of the sign face itself. Thank you. Any other questions? Yeah, I have one. Yes. So I noticed that VDOT has no comments for this. But, you know, Martinsburg Pike has a lot of truck traffic and things like that. Are there any kind of barriers, you know, safety barriers, guardrail, something of that nature, just to make sure there's no accidents? I mean, being that this is so close to the road, just for safety reasons? Not that staff is concerned of. That is also something that VDOT would have likely commented on. Okay. Thank you. Is the applicant available for comments? Mr. Chairman, Members of the Planning Commission, I'm Ty Lawson. I'm here on behalf of the applicant, and Dexter Mumaw is also here. What we're intentionally doing is seeking the zoning into the interstate area overlay district. And I greatly appreciate Mr. Thomas's... Oh. Hold on a second. There you go. Did I do that? Thank you. Eric gave me a tutorial on this. We're going into that district, and I greatly appreciate it. I want to take a moment to appreciate Mr. Thomas's reminder of a long time ago, when we actually worked on this and created this district, so that we had some uniformity around the interchanges. And there are standards, and I'll click to them here in a little bit. But our intent is to conform with and comply with all of those standards that have been imposed at all of our interchanges for these interstate signs, and their purpose is to inform the traveling public of business service opportunities at these interchange areas. And they're designed to allow for additional visibility for commercial businesses while minimizing negative impacts to view sheds, and hence all those standards. And as far as the heights, they were established to be a certain maximum height and size. And they're designed to allow for additional visibility for commercial businesses. And as far as the heights, they were established to be a certain maximum height and size. And they're designed to allow for additional visibility for commercial businesses. And they're designed to allow for additional visibility for commercial businesses. So, what we are proposing is identical to what has been approved for the signs at the 317 interchange. And there are, actually there's one on, I think there was a question, is there any on our side? I'm not sure if that question meant on our side of Route 11. Or our side of 81. But they are on both sides of 81. There's one at Rutherford, for example, that was approved. And again, we are conforming with all of those standards. I've got in here in terms of how far away we are. The district says that you've got to be within a certain geography. And actually, we're closer to the interstate than some of the other signs that have already been approved. than some of the other signs that have already been approved. by ordinance. The Wawa one, Burger King Shell Station being another. There's a comment about setbacks. We are 11 feet back. That is intentional. We have a location at our site. It's actually under construction. The standards say you have to be at least 10 feet away. We did give, as part of the rezoning, a significant amount of right of way to VDOT. We did give, as part of the rezoning, a significant amount of right of way to VDOT. And I should mention, when we build those interchange improvements, we actually get closer to the interchange than what you've got here. What you've got here is what exists now. When all those improvements are done to 317, which have been approved and funded, we'll actually be in closer proximity to that. And we are, I would submit wholly and completely, And we are, I would submit wholly and completely, in compliance with the comprehensive plan. We don't adjoin residential uses. I appreciate the comment that there are zoned properties down the road from us for commercial, and they're being occupied as residential. They're non-conforming uses. That's fine. They can remain that way. But what we have done, not just through a comp plan, but through zoning, said that those are going to be commercial. And I think it makes a lot of sense. We're bounded by OMPs. Across the street from us is a commercial area that's slated to be a grocery store. We don't want that. And then, of course, as we go into Snowdon, we have quite a bit of industrial. And then finally you get into Snowdon Bridge. Along 11, we have Rutherford. And we already have houses that are there, yes, but that's all been zoned commercial. So I think it's reasonable to vote on that. I think it's reasonable to foresee that that's what that'll be. Artie said, we do not interfere with the proposed realignment of not only the interchange, I've forgotten who asked, but also the Redbud Road relocation, which is part of that. I think that's the first step in that process. Wait. What happened to the next ones? The other pages. . Okay. We have established the boundaries, and we've talked about the residential areas and what we do not adjoin. We've also complied with and intentionally we're proffering to abide by the zoning ordinance for this district, as well as the Virginia code. . And although it's not coming up, I've got, just so you know, and I'll run through them, the setback, that's in your district regulations. It's a minimum of 10 feet. The spacing so that there cannot be but so many signs within close proximity, we comply with that. The size of the sign is prescribed, and it's got a maximum square footage. . And the example that we've given does in fact comply with that. Illumination, that's also prescribed in the district, and we intend to comply with that. And that comes with, as Mr. Bittner pointed out, you can only have ambient foot candles at the property line. We will comply with that. Glare, we restrict that. And we are. I've forgotten who asked, but we're backlit. The sign is backlit. And then there's actually maintenance requirements, and we have to keep the signs in good repair. And if there's any damage, the ordinance requires within 30 days you have to clean that up. And then, of course, the permitted heights. And that's tied to sea level, and we are in conformity with that. So in short, there's quite a detailed ordinance that this county has adopted for properties that serve the interstate. This is a convenience store. It's a Liberty and a Circle K. It also, like all the modern convenience stores, has three points of sale within it, three different products. And we've given an example of what we intend to build. Could that change over time? Absolutely. As brands change and things of that sort. So that's why we gave that as an example. And we'll be happy to respond to any questions. Thank you, Mr. Lawson. Do we have any questions of the applicant? Yes, sir. Do we get an answer on the backlighting? Does it impact? It is backlit. Thank you. There is backlit. And does that impact the residential area? No. I mean, I'm sorry. If you're asking me, is it? Yeah. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You're asking me a question. You all have standards. Mm-hmm. And we comply with those. We completely comply with those. Right. You can't. Well, I guess, if we are zoned to this overlay district, we have to comply with those and we will. And it does prescribe the maximum ambient light at a property line. We abut to commercial all around us, but we still have to abide by that. And we cannot have light spillage and that sort of thing. Right. If that's what you're asking. I was. Mm-hmm. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions of the applicant? Ms. Brumbach? I'll find the button. So, the proposed sign is 46-foot tall, but in the district, you could go to 110. Is that correct? What I would prefer to say is that that is an example of what we intend to install. And that does comply with the square-to-square-foot plan. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So, that's the square-to-square footage. Mm-hmm. It is scaled. What you have there is 46. What we are asking for is what everyone else in the district has obtained, which is a maximum of that height above sea level, which works out to about 100 feet. What we may build will not be that tall, and I believe it will be a little shorter. Okay. And then for the County, I guess, Mr. Bittner? Yes. So in saying that, we can't, since it's in the district, we have to leave it at the above sea level and be the 110. We can't enforce anything less than that? Correct. The applicant would have to proffer a reduced height or, for example, for every height or every foot they go above 46 feet, they move a foot further back in their setback. But that would have to be volunteered by the applicant. Okay. Thank you. And I will say that remembering back to when we set these heights, we set them as a distance above sea level because of the topography changes on different sites. And also we wanted to make sure they were visible from the interstate because the whole purpose of this ordinance is to bring in people off the interstate and allow them to get the services in Frederick County that they need. And we have to make sure that this is a safe and secure place for people to come in and take the services that are provided at the intersection. So was there a question, Mr. McKay? Yeah. I didn't know if Mr. Bittner could answer this or not, but just maybe he could touch on the adjoining property owners. They look to be more investment companies or something similar. I know they're residential property or houses, but what's anything, any light you can shed on that? I would have to double check on the property owners. I'm fairly confident. I think there's been a fair amount of the residential homes that front on Route 11 are owned by the OMSLLCs that owns the properties behind them. I'm not sure if all of them are owned by that, but I think most of them are. So there's the potential that could become commercial development at some point. Yeah. I think there might be one or two that they don't own right now, and they're further closer to the interchange. Okay. Yeah. Should we be considering them residential properties, or since they are nonconforming uses, shouldn't they be considered as commercial properties? Yeah. It's a bit of a question of philosophy. I think you can view it either way. It's important to remember that even though they are owned by somebody who has them zoned for potential commercial use in the future, there are tenants occupying them, so it's worth giving fair consideration that there are residents living there. Long term, it's highly likely that they will redevelop commercially, and so as you do planning work in the area, it's fair to assume that that's a temporary status of having residents there. I know that's not a perfect answer, but that's the point. I think that's the best I got for you. Thank you. Any other questions of staff or the applicant on the left? On the right? Mr. Yeah. Thank you. I do have a concern with the height, because I think to the battlefield, the third battlefield, which is right there, and that is the close. This would definitely be the closest sign by far to that. I think right on that corner, this would be the closest. The next one is Target, which is away from the main building, which is way over there, and then Wawa is on the other side of the interstate. Correct. Right. So this would be, and I'm thinking to 110 feet of an illuminated sign, and people standing on the battlefield with three cannons right there, and you're looking, and then you've got a sign in the back of your picture on every one of those. And the 46 feet sounds fine. I know 110 approximately. I know that we're making adjustments for sea level, but approximately 110 feet. I'm just wondering, I'm just wondering from view shed if that's going to damage that view shed from that asset, because where is it? The code, what am I? The comp plan says these areas highly visible building and site design should be of a high quality to ensure that the areas put forth an attractive view for both residents and visitors. And then also in the county code, it says the standards while minimizing negative impacts to view sheds, the traveling public and residential, and the I appreciate your comments and, and I'm number one, we, we enjoy a very positive and strong relationship with Shenandoah Valley Battlefield Foundation and Mr. Walker and Jack, and as well. And, and I, you mentioned that. I think we talked briefly yesterday about that. And I'll be happy for the board to, to get comments from them. But I'm, I'm, I'm trying to visualize where we are in the corner. And of course, we've got all behind us and around us. And I appreciate the clarification because I, I do believe they own those houses and I believe it's reasonably foreseeable to, that the, that the OMS area will, will change. Actually, we have a road that we have to build that comes in and, and tees. And there's, there's quite a bit of commercial that, that is, you don't have to visualize it. It's coming and it's being built and part of it's being built by our client. And then of course, as you go down Snowdon, you, you have industrial significant buildings, great contributors to our tax base and employment base. And so on. They, they have signage identifying their structures also. But what we are doing is intentionally trying to, to get zoned into this district. Somebody had mentioned the, the Wawa sign. That sign is actually sitting where it's sitting because there was a sign there way back when and it's so old, I can't remember it. I remember there was a used car lot before there, but there was something else before that. And that's where it was. And that's why it's 90, whatever feet, six feet back, which if we did that on ours, it's off our property. We're not that deep, but that's why that's there. It is intentional to get these things approved and they change over time. You and I talked, I'd love to see a Starbucks there and, and because I like coffee, but it isn't. It's, it's these three other, uh, products which are excellent and I highly recommend you to go there. But, um, we want to be flexible as we go forward and we want to give those opportunities not only for ourselves, but whoever owns it, uh, in the future and working it backwards. The, the Wawa, which was a car dealership and then whatever it was, they got approval for that. And then those signs get replaced over time. So I guess, uh, thank you. I, I guess to, to go back at the very beginning, you said you're, you're willing to get a statement from the battlefield foundation. No, I thought that was an excellent comment. All right. Okay. Um, I, that would, that would suffice. Okay. Thank you. Any other comments? I think in supporting Mr. Kerns here, I mean, maybe just a sight line, you know, because like you said, I mean, that would show us the elevation of the sign, the elevation of the battlefield. Um, you know, I mean, I don't know if the owner would be willing to do that, but I think it brings up a good point there, you know, in, in preserving, um, you know, the battlefield there in the background. Okay. I will say the further, the closer he has it to the right away in the front, moving the sign to the back would make it more visible to the battlefield. So we are better off having the sign as far forward as possible. And I also will remind everybody that, you know, the interstate overlay district would apply to any, any businesses along the front of, uh, of 11 there that would be within that distance from the interstate. So everything between this sign and the interstate would also be eligible for the interstate overlay district. So there could be multiple signs when those rezonings, well, they already are rezoned. Uh, they could come in and ask to be included in the interstate overload district. And the whole purpose of this district, like I said before, was to bring in traffic, to increase business for Frederick County businesses, uh, from the interstate. So, uh, there's a lot of opportunity there. There is. As long as there's no other questions. Thank you, Mr. Lawson. Thank you all for your time. And I'll open the public hearing. Do we have any citizen comments? Please come forward. Give your magisterial district, state your name, and please limit your comments to three minutes. Hi, my name is Leslie Spencer. I live in Gainesboro. I do love the recommendation for the Shenandoah battlefields. I moved here in 2011 from Honolulu, Hawaii, and there are no signs, high signs. There are no billboards. They take tourism very seriously. Before smartphones, people would just ask you for things. A lot of strangers, a lot of tourists. Where's the best this? Where's the best that? You know, where's the best price of gas? Those types of things. I take our viewshed very seriously. I also take our dark skies very seriously. Moths, bats, owls. They help nature so much. And if this place is on the, you know, you have a bunch of gas stations now, all in one area. You know, they're doing a great job. And if the industrial creeps, especially through dark skies, towards our more natural areas, such the battlefields are, and those sensitive areas that are there, and the Clearbrook Park, and the runs. I mean, there's bacteria and high sediment runoff right now. And that's a warning that nature is not okay right there for the watershed. And all of these ecology things work together. Your dark skies are working for you. So if anybody helps you creep those dark skies further, out into your more natural areas, there's actually bringing more tax costs to the county in a certain way. There are so many uses that I see us moving towards, especially mixed uses where people enjoy to live in this county. If it is industrial, great. If it's mixed transitional, coffee shops, cafes, art spaces, studios, that's great too. And I think that the residents around here would appreciate that more. And so there's a certain amount of luxury that goes with that. Like, high upper scale, high scale living environments, high quality, and luxury, and what luxury looks like. You have a great place right now. It's very utility. They're utilized. Big, large signs that we probably don't need because Hawaii is doing great without them. But, you know, I'm against this rezoning, and I oppose this sign. Thank you very much. Thank you. Do we have any other comments? Seeing none, I'll close the public hearing. Commissioners, it's time for our discussion. And again, you know, I will remind you again. You've probably heard it too many times already that this is in the interstate overlay district. It is intended to draw business off the interstate. It does not go that far distance from the interstate. So I think all the comments have been very good. And I think getting a statement from the Battlefield Association, this could be the first sign in that area on that side close to the battlefield. So I think that would be helpful. Do we have other discussions? Seeing none, this is in the Stonewall Magisterial District. What is your preference? Thank you, Mr. Vice Chairman. I would make a motion that we, for rezoning, number 0326, the Snowden Bridge Station Interstate Overlay, forward to the Board with a recommendation for approval. Thank you. Do we have a second? Second. Thank you. The motion is to forward it to the Board of Supervisors with a recommended approval. Mr. Whitaker, I'll let you start off the voting. Whitaker, no. Thank you. Crane, yes. DaHaven, yes. Kern, yes. Kozo, yes. Margret, yes. Sneddon, yes. Boddard, yes. McKay, yes. Brumbach, yes. LaManya, yes. And Thomasvotes, yes. So this will go to the Board of Supervisors for their hearing on the June 10th. Thank you very much. Thank you, The next item for the public hearing is a conditional use permit 0126 for Ricky E. and Eric A. Chase. Ms. Feltner. Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair and members of the Planning Commission. This is a request for a conditional use permit for a public garage. The property is approximately one acre and it's located at 541 Rubuck Road in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. The map identifies the property in red along the northern border of the county adjacent to Berkeley County, West Virginia, just west of I-81. The property is accessed off of Rubuck Road and a private access via Sassafras Lane is located in the rear of the property. The proposed sketch shows the parking location highlighted in yellow. The existing parking. area is graveled and located behind an existing board on board fence fronting Rubuck Road. The parking on Sassafras is for the owner's personal use only. These are the applicant's proposal and these are not conditions. The proposal is to operate a repair garage inside an existing 1200 square foot structure for the repair, replacement, maintenance of brakes, steering, suspension, engines and transmission. It's important to know that this is not. Remember, you will have to get the userи name, technical information, facility details from prof. joins use Next slide and I invite all participants to notice the Brightens to put in their messages. Multiple vehicles are Sup<|it|> around here. The 6th. All cars leaving 발�isaco 在巴拉 제일后出來去�робFEA. Non dispatched拿ఠці No day is in place. Take 마ête à kaz Director. No. The zoning ordinance requires or permits motor vehicle repair garages and public garages in the RA district with an approved conditional use permit. The zoning ordinance requires a public garage to maintain all repairs to take place within the entire enclosed structure. All exterior storage of parts and equipment to be screened from view in the surrounding properties by an opaque fence, six foot in height. Inoperable motor vehicles are stored inside an enclosed building or screened on all four sides by a six foot opaque fence. Sales of the vehicles are prohibited. Should the Planning Commission find this used to be appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions. All review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. An illustrative sketch. An illustrative sketch shall be submitted to and approved by Frederick County and all improvements completed prior to the operation or establishment of the use. All automotive related activities, including repair, shall occur entirely within the enclosed structure. Exterior storage of parts and equipment shall be screened from view by a six foot high opaque fence. All parking shall have a gravel surface. The business is not permitted employees beyond those residing within the property. The hours of operation. Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. And a maximum of eight vehicles are awaiting service within the fenced parking area is permitted. Any expansion or change of use shall require a new conditional use permit. This item. This item is presented for a public hearing. Staff is seeking recommendations from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. I can answer any questions that you may have. And the applicant, Mr. Chase, is also available. To answer any questions that you may have. Thank you, Ms. Felner. Is this business currently operating on that site? Yes, sir. This business is currently operating on the site. It's a violation. And in order to abate that violation, he needs an approved conditional use permit. Thank you. Any questions on the left from the staff? On the Sassafras Lane, does he have legal rights to use that as well for bringing cars in and out? Or is it just on Reebok? It is my understanding he does, but I will let him address that question. Any other questions, Dr. LaMonna? Yeah. Number five, just for my clarification from staff, perhaps. The business has not permitted employees beyond those residing on the property. What is the intent of that? So the conditional use permit, if approved, goes with the property. So he's not asking for any employees. It's a condition where only he would be the operation of the public garage. He's not going to have additional employees coming and going from the property servicing the vehicles. Okay. Got it. So I just didn't get it from that statement. That's okay. Thanks. On the right, do we have any questions? Mr. Kerns? Yes. Thank you. So if this came to the attention of planning staff as a violation, may I ask? How it came to your attention? Was there a complaint from a neighbor or how was that received? There was a complaint and the applicant was notified that the proper procedure would require him a new conditional use permit. Beyond that, the applicant can possibly elaborate on that. Okay. I was just curious if it was for something beyond what their proffered uses were. Thank you. Any other questions of staff? Thank you. Is the applicant here, Mr. Chase, would you like to provide some comments and we'll have some questions for you? Good evening. My name is Eric Chase. I'm in the Gainesboro Magistral District. Can I answer any questions that you have for me? Thank you. On the right, do we have any questions? Commissioner Kerns? Yeah, it was just about the one. Thank you. The one I just had right now, the complaint that was received, was that... Can I ask what that was? And if that's something that... Was it a noise thing or... I just want to make sure that we're not negatively impacting one of the neighbors on one of the sides. Yes. So it was from a neighbor and it was of inoperable vehicles, large vehicles coming in and out, stuff like that. I had a large number of vehicles on the property at one point in time. I've since force removed it. Okay. Thank you. Have you had discussions with... Like all the adjoining neighbors and is... Do you have positive feedback from them? It's mixed. So I have definite positive and definite negative as well. So on either side, there's some of both. On the left, Mr. Brumbaugh? I was just going to ask about the Sassafras Lane. Do you use that and do cars come in and out of that or are you strictly on Reebok? To answer that question. So I have used it before. I've since talked to another neighbor that's behind me that lives off Sassafras. I do not have legal right to use it. Okay. I've since force removed the vehicles from that parking area. Okay. Thank you. Do we have any other questions of the applicant? Thank you. Yes, sir. This is a public hearing. I'll open it up for citizen comments. Please come forward. Give us your name and your magisterial district. Any citizens? Any citizens wish to comment? Please come up to the microphone. My name is Sue Shaw and I'm with the Gainesboro District. I am the complaint. I have had cars come to my yard. I've had children that have to hear all the noise. All the noise. All the noise. All the language. All the trash. Also, when we have a gathering at my home, you can't open the windows for the motorcycles. The car is gunning. The car is pulling in my driveway. And I've got six great-grandchildren. I've got two people in my household that has seizures. And when these wreckers come in with these junk cars on them, they can set their seizures off. I have one that has to be home-schooled. But at 5 o'clock in the evening, there is a motor going. Banging of tools and everything. When there is a teacher that is in the school with other children, that has to listen to this also. And I am against this business because there is a covenants in this area. And his property is part of that covenants. And I suggest that if you all want to hear any more of it, come on out. Friday, Saturday, Sundays, all day long. All night long. Thank you for listening to me. Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to comment? Please just form a line behind the podium here. Thank you, Mr. Vice Chairman. My name is Tom Stevenson. I'm in the Gainesboro District. I'm a resident of Sassafras Lane. Sassafras Lane is a private right-of-way. It is owned by, maintained by, and upgraded by the residents of Sassafras Lane. The county has nothing to do with that road. It's a right-of-way. Yes, it's a road. Yes, we've had it paved. But that's been out of our pocket, not the county's. As far as this conditional use permit is concerned, he does have a graveled parking area, as was displayed earlier, that comes off Sassafras Lane. When it was put in, I was not contacted by Mr. Chase. Or I don't know that any other residents on the road were contacted by him for permitted use on Sassafras. What we've seen in the past, I understand from what he's presented here, that things are changing. But the vehicles are parked there in that parking spot, and they may sit there for a week. There was one vehicle that was just removed a couple days ago that had been there, I know, for two months. And hadn't moved. So am I for this or against this? Don't know. Am I against him using Sassafras Lane as access to the back of his property? Yes. It's starting to become a collection of various auto parts around his building. And there are several stacks of tires in the back that are starting to collect. And for us, that's not what we really want to see. This is a residential area, and we just want to be, have a nice quiet residential area where we can live and enjoy our life. And that's my comments. Thank you. Thank you, Tom. I'm Darryl Myers with Gainesboro District. I live on Sassafras Lane. My property is within about 50 feet of his property. Sassafras Lane, as this previous gentleman said, is a private road. We paid for it. We maintain it. He's paid nothing. He put in a parking lot that's only accessible from Sassafras. He has no right to put his vehicles or anybody else's vehicles there. And he's just, it's pretty rude to come in and use somebody else's driveway to operate your business. So I'm totally opposed to him having the garage there. He's showing disrespect for the other property owners. And as this lady said, I can't even sit out on my porch and have calm because I hear the rat-a-tat-tat and pneumatic drills and the vroom, vroom, vrooms of his air guns and stuff. There's no peace and quiet there. It ruins, it's ruining the value of that property. I don't even want to live there and hear all that noise and stuff going on. And he showed no respect for us. He's cleaned it up lately because he's having this hearing here. He wants it to look nice. Here is a photo of what I look at every day coming out of my driveway. The vehicles aren't there anymore, but there's stacks of tires and car parts and pallets and stuff like that laying around. I don't want that. I don't think you want somebody using your driveway and making all that noise in your residential neighborhood either. Please do not allow him to have this permit to have the garage there. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. My name is Donald Dotson. Actually, I'm from the Gainsborough District. I live at 553 Roebuck Road. My bedroom is adjacent to Mr. Chase's driveway. I drive a truck. For a living, I get up at 2.30 in the morning. If I can go to bed at 5.30 in the afternoon and get up at 2.30 in the morning with uninterrupted sleep, I don't see the issue. Like, literally, his driveway is full of cars. It's 40 feet from my window. I don't see the issue. Yes, it was dirty at one time. He has since taken care of it. He has been a troubled human being before. He has served his time to the community. He's done his time. He is doing what he knows best to provide for his family. He is doing what he knows best to provide for his family. He is doing what he knows best to provide for his family. It's hard to get a job when you're a felon. We all know this. People don't like it. He's good at what he does. He could be an asset to the neighbors around him. He does very good work. He's very reasonable. I'm for it. And like I said, his driveway is 40 feet off my window. I'm not going to get in his driveway. I'm not going to let him in. I'm going to let him out. I'm not going to let him in. He's a good guy. Thank you. Thank you. Can I make one more brief comment? Just very short. He has also been blocked by him bringing vehicles in and out of there. I couldn't even get in and out of my driveway because he blocked that. Furthermore, there are other garages in Clearbrook that pay thousands of dollars a month to rent a garage and operate a garage. He can go to a place that's zoned for business and operate his business. Thank you. Thank you. If you've already spoken, we really don't want to listen or want to make sure everybody has the opportunity to speak. Yes, sir. I just wanted to let you know that I have photos of everything if you want to see them. Thank you. Are there any other comments for or against this conditional use permit? Thank you. I'll close this meeting. I'll close the public hearing. Commissioners, do you have any comments for the applicant or staff on this and in internal discussions? Amy, do a summary. Yes. Amy, there you are. Would you give us a summary of where we're at? Yes, sir. This is a conditional use permit for a repair garage located at 541 Rubuck Road, New York. This is a conditional use permit for a repair garage located at 541 Rubuck Road in Clearbrook, Maryland, Clearbrook, Virginia. There are stipulated conditions and hours of operation, and we're looking for recommendation or we're looking for recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. Thank you. Ms. Feltner, did you have a discussion with the applicant on all of the conditions? And he understands the conditions? Yes, sir. Some of the ones that he's requested, the three individuals, the hours of operation and no weekends, no additional staff. I did make a site visit. The fencing is already in place in two parts of the property. The gravel parking area is there and is quite substantial to accommodate the eight vehicles. He is requesting. He knows that he has to do an illustrative sketch, which he can do. And he knows he has to get that looked at and approved prior to operation. Okay, thank you. Are there any other questions of staff? Commissioner Brumbach? Yes. I think the one lady mentioned the covenants. Yes. Do we know if there are covenants on this property that would prohibit having a garage? I do not know of any covenants on the property, but that's a question more so for the applicant. That's actually a civil item that really doesn't have any bearing on our action tonight. If the covenants are being violated, they have to, the Homeowners Association or whatever association has those covenants has to take care of that. Not the county. Thank you. Mr. Vice Chairman. I'm sorry. I'll get down in a minute. Okay. Yeah, I had a question for the applicant. How many tires would you be having on the side? At what point do you think can you get tires hauled off or picked up so that it doesn't become. Mosquito magnets. Yeah, mosquito magnets and everything else. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mayor Baylor? Okay, sure. So the original design uses back in the security policing moments there. Just para- As forth. Yeah. Okay. So we have fråst what would happen if we would essentially be having this tire eastern 24 six been wandering or how you would before $850 just have $400 covered to be able to work from home and not run into any legalities, any issues. So those will be removed. There will be no tires stored on the property or automotive parts outside. It's an eyesore and, you know, it needs to go. Mr. Mark, just a question. Can you operate without access to Sassafras Lane? Yes, sir. And you do understand that you will not be able to do any work on vehicles at that point on the weekends by the restrictions? Yes, and only within the hours proposed as well. Okay, thank you. Any other questions? Commissioner Crane? Yes, Mr. Vice Chairman. Are you able to use Rubuck Road to enter your property? Because it looks like there's a driveway that goes there. Yes, yes. The driveway goes from the beginning of Rubuck Road to the end of Rubuck Road. It goes through the garage in the rear of the property. So you're willing to use that instead of Sassafras so you're not bothering your neighbors? Yes, and to elaborate as well, there is no garage access on Sassafras. I was just using it to park vehicles back there. I was unaware that it was a privately owned road at the time when the gravel was put in place. So it will not be used. Okay, thank you. Commissioner Curran? Thank you, Mr. Vice Chairman. Can we go back up to the screen with the conditions of approval, just so we're looking at those? The applicant, he just said he was willing to not, he wasn't planning on having any exterior, anything stored outside at all. And that says exterior storage shall be screened. Is the applicant, are you willing to say that you just actually put that in writing? That you're not going to store anything outside? Yes. To change that? If it would be your recommendation to change it, then yes, I would be willing to change that. This is put in place to cover a scrap metal container. So, you know, if you're changing brakes, axles, something like that, that would be inside of a container, but all of the area would be screened inside. So the garage itself borders, the fence borders the garage. Okay. So I guess that's in there for parts and equipment, you know, for that purpose. You look like you're about to. So that's actually a zoning ordinance requirement when you're operating a repair garage in the RA under unapproved conditional use permit. We have had some in the past that did not have any outdoor storage, and that's great. We've had some in the past that didn't have any stored unoperable vehicles on site, and that was great. But you remember the conditional use permit goes with the land. So if he sells the property and a new conditional use, or a new owner comes in to operate a repair garage, and he wants outdoor storage, those conditions are there to protect that. It doesn't necessarily have to be there. If you want to remove them, you're welcome to remove them. We still have the ordinance to cover that. Or maybe say no external storage of tires or something. That is appropriate as well. Ms. Feltner, quick question for you. Before he can operate his business, he has to have all the fencing screening in place before he can operate. Correct? Yes, ma'am. I think his attempt to get a business license is what has found him to find a conditional use permit, obviously in lieu of a complaint. But he has sensed, in my understanding from him, has reverted his business license to mobile only until this gets approved with the screening and everything like that, if this gets approved. Thank you. I have another applicant question. Just going back to the... The noise. Is there any way, I mean, to mitigate that? I know you have certain tools and you can't make them not so noisy, but is there any... I'm just trying to think of ways we can help with the neighbors that have school children or doing certain activities that can't function. Absolutely. There is a way to mitigate the noise. I've been looking into thicker insulation, only operating loud tools if the doors are shut. I do kind of want... I want to touch on one comment, though. I don't run pneumatic impacts. I use all electric impacts. Even if you come to my shop at Martinsburg Pike, I don't have pneumatic impacts. Loud air compressor, yes, you can get quieter models for the area. There's other options. You have certain tools that have a little stronger sound deadening on them. So, yes, there's other options that I could pursue. Thank you. Commissioner DeHaven. I'm not sure my questions for staff or the applicant may be a bit of both. You've mentioned this commercial building that's located somewhere on Martinsburg Pike. Yes. If the business is being operated out of this commercial location, why are we even looking at a CUP for a home garage? Am I missing something here? Yes, sir. So, to be completely honest with you, the reason I'm trying to have this business at my residence is due to my lack of ability. I have a disability to travel and being home with my father. So, my father is disabled. He's in very poor health. I do not have a possessive driver's license, nor do I have the ability to get a driver's license. So, my travel is given to me by my father that's 73 and disabled. He is my only form of transportation. Being where I live at, you know, that Martinsburg Pike location is about a mile and a half from my house. The only reason that garage was rented is because if I didn't make that decision, I wouldn't have been able to pay my bills. This is a temporary thing. Even though I did sign a one-year lease down there, this is a temporary measure to continue to generate income without violating the county ordinances. Does that make sense? I think so. It's a clarification, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Commissioner Croninger? The hours of operation are 9 to 5, Monday through Friday. Does that include when the... when a trucker may come and drop off a car or a rollback comes in, is that 9 to 5, Monday through Friday as well? Yes, there would be no drop-offs permitted after hours or before hours. Thank you. Okay. I think that's it for the questions. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Ms. Feltner, would you like to wrap anything up? Is there any additional comments? You'd like to make? No, other than the planning staff is seeking recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board. Thank you. Do we have any other discussions internally on the Planning Commission? If we're going to pass this, it needs to have Santa Fras Lane added to the conditions. Okay. And the... No. We're going to have to store tires. Okay. And the outside tires. Okay. With that, certainly the applicant has offered to not use Santa Fras Lane, and he has also offered not to store tires outside. So I don't think those conditions would cause any problems, but that can be part of the motion when we get to the point of having a motion. Is there anything else? Any other suggestions? Discussions? Commissioner Whitaker? Yes. Keeping the garage door shut will really reduce sound. I guess you've got an air condition in there. I have a question for the attorney. If these... Can the county be held liable for impairing the obligation of a contract because there is a covenant that says this is not prevented? No, sir. As Mr. Thomas stated, that would be a private matter amongst the landowners. Okay. So it would not put him in a better standing if he was to be sued in a better standing that, well, it was approved by the county, so we're going to allow for this covenants to be overlooked? It doesn't aid him in any way? No, sir. Completely separate. Completely separate. Lines of legal analysis and remedies. Okay. Thank you. Anything else? Commissioner Crane? So, personally, considering Mr. Chase's background, he's trying to start a new life. With the conditions set forth in the CUP, if those are abided by... I see where he's mitigated the issues that were brought up by the neighbors. You know, honestly, hats off to him for trying to start a new life, and he's got to do it at his home. I just think, you know, this is a good opportunity for him, and so long as he abides by the conditions set forth in the CUP. Very good comments. Thank you. Yeah, and to add to that, just keep in mind, CUPs can be revoked. They don't happen often. We've only had one, but just be mindful of your neighbors. If you don't have good neighbors, you're not respected by them, it can cause a lot of issues, and, you know, I do want to see you succeed. We all do, so just please do everything you can to be respectful of your neighbors. Thank you. This is in the Gainesville... Gainesboro Magisterial District. Do we have a motion from one of our Gainesboro members? Yes, I make a motion to approve this and accept all the conditions for the approval. Thank you. Do we want to include the two conditions of no tires on site and no access to... Sassafras. Yes, Mr. Lester. Okay, staff, you have that? Do we have a second for that motion? I second. Thank you. We have a motion on the floor to recommend approval with two additional comments or two additional conditions, no use of Sassafras Lane, and no storage outside of tires on the site. Commissioner LaManna, I'll start with you. LaManna, yes. Brumback, yes. McKay, yes. Potter, yes. Sneddon, yes. Markard, yes. Cozo, yes. Cozo, yes. Kern, yes. Haven, yes. Mr. Crane, yes. Crane, yes. Whitaker, yes. And Thomas, folks, yes. This will go to the Board of Supervisors for their action at their June 10th meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Felton will now move on to the residential separation buffer, and I guess you get all of the duty tonight. Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair and members of the Planning Commission. This is a proposal to amend Chapter 165, the zoning ordinance, for residential separation buffer requirements as it relates to the multifamily buildings 30 feet in height or less. The ordinance amendment was initiated by the Board of Supervisors at the request of a developer. The RP District Standards Section was last amended in 2017. The RP District Standards Section was last amended in 2017, which reduced the multifamily residential separation buffer for multifamily garden apartments adjacent to existing townhouse developments. The current zoning ordinance requires developments with different housing types to provide residential separation buffers. The intent is to adequately buffer different housing types from dissimilar housing types of adjacent separate developments. The current standard provides five different housing types that require separation from each other. The first column indicates the housing type of the proposed development also identified numerically. The remaining columns on the right is the required buffer based on the existing adjoining housing type of that development. The number or the heading of the adjoining development correlates to the housing type number listed in the first column. The number of property areas identified in the first column is the same as the one listed in the second column. For example, a townhouse number three adjacent to a subdivision number three, which is a townhouse subdivision, would have no separation buffer requirement. If we had a garden apartment item four adjacent to two, which is a single family, zero lot line or small, you would be required to have a Category C buffer. The zoning ordinance currently has three types, three categories of buffers. It's a category A, category B, and a category C. Each of the buffers have an inactive distance and an active distance listed in column two and column three, providing for a total distance in column four, which is labeled total. The total distance changes with the density of the screening, either a full screen, a landscape screen, or no screen as seen in the last column. As you can see, based on the buffer requirement from the previous chart, the designer would have three options to provide for a category A, a category B, or category C buffer. This image represents a residential separation buffer type C full screen. The difference between a full screen and a full screen is that the image is a residential separation buffer type C full screen. The difference between a full screen and a landscape screen is primarily the linear distance. A full screen has the added screening component of a six foot tall opaque element, typically a board on board, two rows of evergreens, or a six foot tall earthen berm as shown in this figure in G. The landscape element, which is required in both the landscape and the full screen option, is the 10 foot wide area for the plantings labeled E. The full screen provides the densest screen with the minimal amount of distance. This amendment proposes to remove the distinction between the age-restricted and the non-age restricted multifamily structures. Multifamily structures as a whole is then separated into two separate categories based on the height of the structure. Multifamily and garden apartments greater than 35 feet remain unchanged. Garden apartments, multi-family, less than 35 feet will allow for a smaller buffer when placed adjacent to single family dwellings, single family zero lot line, or townhouses. This is a graphical image of a type C full buffer, which is the current requirement for the smalls in this single family zeros. And it shows the 100 foot linear distance with the 10 foot landscape element and the fence as well. This is a category B full screen buffer, again reduces the distance from 100 feet down to 50 feet. And this is a visual representation of a category A buffer showing the required 25 feet as proposed for the reduction for the townhouse type only. This item is presented for public hearing. Staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors and thank you Mr. Chair. I can answer any questions that you may have. Thank you. Do we have any questions for staff on the left? On the right? I guess I was just curious why the height changed happened because from the last DRC we had discussed a number of things, but we were going to look at all the buffers holistically and not just zone in on this. Okay. So, I'm going to go ahead and ask the question. I'm going to go ahead and ask the question. Okay. So, the Zoning Ordinance phase one is coming to the Board the next meeting. With that is going to follow phase two, hopefully, and within phase two, this section will be re-modified and looked at. And Commissioner Kozell, to speak more to kind of like the process, when we're tasked to go to amend an ordinance by the Board of Supervisors, we take advisement from the Committee through the process and the Planning Commission through the process. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. process but neither the committee or the Planning Commission can say don't don't get anything through to the board we have to proceed through with something so I think the DRC's recommendation is valid and certainly worth considering that we do need to do a broader revision to the entirety of our buffer standards not limited to just residential separation but also our zoning district buffers as well so those that are required between industrial and residential districts but we've had this happen before as well where the committee has you know an opinion on how the matter should be handled entirely but staff can't not bring something forward to the board for an eventual conclusion so so speaking of the next phase so if this gets we move forward with this will they get re-looked at do we have an opportunity to look at it again yeah with house yeah with everything else included the the overall timeline for phase one and phase two is going to be a little bit different than as Amy articulated is set we wanted to complete the comprehensive plan update before we went into the phase two update that way we can use the new comp plan as kind of a way to root ourselves in policy for what we then want to implement through the zoning ordinance so comp plan or year year and a half out from completing that and phase two would start after that any other questions for staff seeing none thank you miss felt mayorזה public hearing for comments from the public if you have any comments please come forward give us your name and your magisterial district then please limit your comments to the three minutes my name is Mary Margaret Barb I live and own a home in the Bat Creek District I'm here to address the proposed changes to the county separation buffer requirement I would just like to provide an asset from a huh here you can get all your money and use the said agreement without measuring things would be a Google page excellene go ahead go ahead go ahead please and take a look so I thank the planning and zoning staff for recognizing the impact of building height on prophecy where housing is of differing types. I am particularly thankful for the recommendation that current buffer requirements between new multifamily buildings over 35 feet in height and established type 1 and 2 single family developments not be reduced. That is a good start, but I am concerned that it falls a bit short. County regulations do nothing to prevent the building of a large six-story apartment complex uncomfortably close to one-story single family homes. Under these circumstances, even a level C buffer is not enough to protect the residents in those one-story homes from negative impacts. The larger the footprint of such an apartment complex, the more negative the impact would be. The lack of county regulations addressing such a situation leaves these small homes vulnerable. Additional regulations increasing separation buffers based on the height of neighboring homes are needed. Moreover, I was disappointed to see the recommendation to remove the age-restricted multifamily category. Age-restricted and non-age-restricted communities are notably different. Leaving age-restricted multifamily category in place and adding an age-restricted single family category would permit the county to take those differences into account. Communities of one-story age-restricted homes and those of two-story family homes with children have differing needs. Each should have those needs accounted for equally. A community of two-story family homes with children is significantly different from a large, busy apartment complex. The difference between a community of one-story age-restricted homes and that same rental complex is even more dramatic. Separate development categories will permit the county to address the needs of those family homes. The different housing types will be protected and the different housing types will be protected. Again, I thank planning and zoning staff for recognizing that differing housing types deserve to have their privacy protected and respectfully encourage staff to now do a more comprehensive review with attention to the concerns I have highlighted. As you do so, please consider, would you be concerned by the prospect of a large six-story rental complex being built right next to your one-story home? Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, I'm Abby Lisk from the Bat Creek District. And I'm here today to speak about the ordinance amendment. I am a little frustrated and concerned that this was coming about at the request of a developer. I've always understood that this was going to be reviewed and looked at after phase one was completed. I've always understood that this was going to be reviewed and looked at after phase one was completed. I'm happy to say that we're going to continue to do this. Thank you. but we're rushing this. Thank you. I feel like this is getting rushed, this decision, because there's a developer involved. I went and attended the DRCC meeting and was very appreciative of everybody's participation, and I walked away with the understanding that they felt more research and more time was needed before we moved through with the ordinance amendment. And I still feel that that's the case, and if I were a citizen, I don't know if I'd get the same concern or priority as a developer, and that really concerns me. We know the developer is a gentleman looking to put in an apartment complex right next to... to 255 and over communities, a small residential community, and on a piece of property that really is not appropriate for this type of building. They're doing everything they can to make it fit and work, but it just doesn't. And if you've been out there or haven't been, I encourage you to please go look at this particular location. This decision isn't just for this developer. It's for all of the county, and I recognize that, but this is, I think, an extreme and something Frederick County does not want to start having happen in our communities. I also noted that there was supposed to be a comparison chart that was used to help come up with these amendment ordinances, and I don't see that chart. I'm curious if you all see the chart. It was supposed to be attached here, so I don't know what the cross-reference points were, but I'd be interested to see... I would encourage everybody else to look at that. Finally, I am concerned that the age-restricted community classification is taken off. Although my age-restricted communities, and I say mine, I'm a community manager, are not multifamily. They're single-family homes. They're close together, zero lot lines. But age-restricted communities, people move into those communities, and they're not going to be able to move into those communities. So I'm concerned that the age-restricted communities with an expectation that there's an environment that is designed around senior living. It's quiet. There are services that keep their communities pristine, and they have that expectation of that environment when they move in. I understand there's growth in the community, but I do feel that that needs to be protected. Winchester was listed as one of the number one cities to reach. We're going to have to get rid of that. We're going to have to get rid of that. We're going to have to get rid of that. We're going to have to get rid of that. And we start throwing in all these apartment complexes right on top of these smaller communities. I think the appeal will quickly go away. So that's it. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other citizens that would like to comment? Leslie. Hi, my name is Leslie Spencer from Gainesboro. I squeak for the trees, apparently. Again, tonight, I'm going to be speaking to you about the fact that the buffers are really important to me, especially when an outside developer comes into our community and changes an entire ordinance to fit their benefit. If it was an incredible, amazing neighborhood and they gave us plans, we could say, we'll give you a waiver. And that benefit could be great for the neighbors. It could be an amazing walkable design. You could see gardens. You could see trees. You could see all kinds of beautiful things inside of that neighborhood that's asking you for an exception, right? But to change the entire county for what they want to do, that's really scary. And I don't think that we should have any part of that. Much, much more protective. I would love to see a tree canopy study done. I've done one myself. It's something I've requested the board to do. But how can you start to change these things when we don't really know what nature needs right there, what the county needs? There's a tree. There's a tree. There's a tree tool that will show you where children are sick, number of days of schools, where people go to the hospital for acute respiratory illnesses, like emergency room. And you can tell that that correlates where there are less trees. Thank you very much. Thank you. Are there any other citizens who wish to comment? If not, I'll close the public hearing. And I will remind the planning commissioners, this is not applicable to any specific site. We are looking at this as an improvement to the overall ordinance. And it would apply to every part of the county. And for specific sites, when they come in for rezoning or to provide a master development plan, criteria could be added to those specific applications to mitigate concerns and impacts on surrounding areas. So this is a general ordinance change, not a change in the policy. This is a change to a specific, for a specific site or a specific contractor. Other than that, do we have any additional questions of staff? There is no applicant, but any additional questions of staff on this ordinance change? Could we have a summary, Ms. Feltner, of where we're at on this? Yes, sir, Mr. Chair. This is a proposal to amend the zoning ordinance for a minimum residential separation buffer requirement as it relates to multifamily buildings and 35 feet in height or less. And we are asking for a recommendation from the planning commission to forward to the board of supervisors for this ordinance amendment. Thank you. Do we have any other discussions among commissioners? Yes, I have a couple. First item, I'm not really interested in looking to, is the reduction of the reduced buffers. Also, this, just the way it's presented at this point in time, it's, we're adding, it's kind of messy right now. And I think if we're going to be looking at it again in another phase, why go through this effort to do this now? I, and I just particularly don't, don't agree with the reduced buffers. So I don't think it's something we should proceed forward with at this time. I have a question. How is this making it better? By reducing buffers. It makes it better for the builder. I don't see how it makes it better for the local residents. And it may be an appropriate buffer if the apartment building was built first and then somebody came along and built residences next to it. Then it's on the residents who buy those to put up with whatever it is that they're missing. But the other way around, I don't think that it's helpful. Sam? Yeah. I, I'm of the same opinion. We sat in the RCC meeting and basically decided not to move forward with this because we didn't want to have this one item that's pushed by one developer now become county-wide. And I think we're all concerned about reducing buffers between different types of residential properties. And I agree with Mr. Markert. If it was the other way around and the apartment was there first and then the residential came in, okay, you're making that choice. But now you're, you're trying to put an apartment building up against, I forget what it was, but it just doesn't look right. And I think this is why the committee, a month ago, said we need, if we're going to look at this, we need to look at the whole buffer program and not just one specific item. So I, I agree with Ms. Cassell. Okay. Any other comments? I will make a comment. And it's not that I'm pushing this or I'm against it, but I will say that our overall buffers and separation areas need to be lowered. Need to be looked at from the standpoint of if we want to preserve, you know, we had to, and I'll back up here, over the next 20 years, we needed, we need over 20,000 additional housing units in Frederick County to accommodate the increased population. The way to, there's a couple ways to do that. One of the ways would be to take up additional agricultural land, which I don't think any of us want to see happening. Another way is making, different types of developments, higher density developments, and more multi-family units available in the county, in the current RA or RP zoning areas and east of 81. And we need to look at what is the most beneficial way for the county. If we do want to preserve our rural nature, agricultural businesses in the county, we're going to have to make some tough choices. I'm not saying this is one of them. This may be one of them. But over the next couple of years, the Planning Commission and Planning Department are going to have to look at higher density housing, less buffers, and more multi-family units to be able to accommodate the additional population that's coming into the county and preserve our rural character of the county and the agricultural businesses. Those are going to be tough choices that not everyone's going to be happy with, but we have to make them as well. And I think that's what we're going to have to do at some point. And I don't know that we have... I mean, we have to make a decision on this tonight. We need to send it to the board with either a positive or a negative recommendation. So having... I think everybody has made their comments. I'll open the floor up to a motion from any Planning Commission member, since this is not a specific district. I can make a motion. I'd like to make a motion to deny this Zoning Ordinance Tax Amendment to revise the residential buffer separation, Chapter 165. Is there a second? Second. Thank you. We have a motion on the floor. With a second, I'll start off with you, Commissioner Whitaker. Motion to deny, yes. Crane, motion to deny, yes. Haven, yes. Kern, yes. Kozo, yes. Marguerite, yes. Sneddon, yes. Pothorff, yes. McKay, yes. Brumbach, yes. Muller, yes. Thomas, no. So this will go to the Board of Supervisors at their June 10th meeting with a motion for denial. Thank you. Is there any other business tonight? Just a quick update. Don't forget, we're heading into summer cancellation, so your second May, June, July, and August Planning Commission meetings are already canceled, so plan accordingly for that. Thank you, Mr. Thomas, for plugging the Q&A that we're having on the data centers tomorrow evening at James Woods. And then I wanted to wait until you all had voted on that to add some color to Roger's comments, and we'll talk about this more at Phase 2. But if you have some time to look into these concepts, I want to ask you about the ability to achieve effective density. And sometimes it means that if you're going to do an apartment complex and then have a large amount of open space all around it, you haven't actually achieved the density that you're attempting to achieve there. And it can result in adverse outcomes, and that's why communities revisit their setbacks and their buffers on a recurring basis to ensure that they've dialed it in to only what's necessary. So, I'm going to ask you to think about that. Thank you. So, I'm going to ask you to think about that. I think it's important to think about that, because if you're doing a building on 100 acres instead of doing 100 units on 100 acres, you haven't accomplished anything. And so, now if you're able to put the area into public space that can be used for recreation or otherwise, those are where the concepts of urban design result in better planning for better communities. So, I waited until you all acted on that specific item, but know that as a concept, you're not going to have to do all of that. And so, I think that's what it offers that you mandate in the ordinance. We'll talk about that more at Phase 2 update. So, Mr. Vice Chairman, that's all I have. I'm happy to answer any questions. Do we have any questions of staff? If not, I will entertain a motion for dismissal. So moved. Second. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. ABK as the Coordinator of how to crackers thank you Section wellness is to provide service to our community under thank you funds for
