Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2023-06-14
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=190
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor. Will you join me in a word of prayer? Father God, eternal source of wisdom and authority, we ask for your blessing and guidance on these proceedings. I thank you for our governing officials and for their commitment to serve the needs of our community. I ask that you would bless them for their service, Lord. Give them insight. Give them insight, prudence, discernment, and peace, so that they may not be unduly burdened by their work. May they be a blessing to the people, and may your spirit unite our community in love, peace, justice, and mercy. Bless us, Lord, in our days ahead. We welcome you here. By your grace, I ask these things. Amen. Amen. Thank you, sir. Please chair me well. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Well, when one of our leaders comes around, why don't you now giver them a little a sign that one of our leaders mayнем will do for them. That will be heard in a prayer for God. Amen. Amen. May you from today be blessed- Yes, sir. The Lord amon. The Lord is with you. And to the comfort of your hostels, dismay- A Christian Flint, the eenie, moenie. deplolate. In this Sc因为 Thank you, sir. And a lot of things may well- to participate remotely mr. chairman yes sir like to make a motion that supervisor Wells be allowed to participate remotely heard the motion is there a second second mr. chairman the second is there any discussion all those in favor aye aye opposed no he is authorized to participate adoption of the agenda how would the board like to handle that mr. chairman I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented heard the motion is there a second second mr. chairman and the second is there any discussion hearing none all those in favor aye aye opposed no the agenda is adopted as presented as a way of an announcement the fruit hill rezoning number 1022 will not be heard this evening it's been postponed to the July 12th meeting at the request of the applicant all right or the supervisors comments are there any mr. chairman we do have some citizen comments I'm sorry Robert Galilee welcome sir we could have your name magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes or less please sir sure I'm Robert Galilee back Creek district we have a discussion about shipping containers coming up and the at least in my opinion the role of the government is not to protect personal preferences if somebody doesn't like my shipping container or somebody else's shipping container that's a preference it's possible that somebody could have flowers and I don't like their flowers there's a depreciation that's aическая corporation can I promise make sure everybody has a discount ability the right thing that you buy in my Corps advertising at commen in the Cambridge we have the right one people have their rights nobody has to be protected by a husband but and in some context the opposite of the title of the right is right it doesn't mean right because on one hand we have a export that is inactive and not contracted despite God's own authority for we have a real opportunity which is that we give opportunity and citizen commissioner then the government wants me to pay them tax and then the government tells me what I can do on my property that doesn't sound like a right to me so the second thing is I'm here to tell you and a gentleman that will be speaking tonight got to find out on Monday that we the people have had enough of being taxed that money being too freely spent and then told what to think and do while our children are openly brainwashed in school and by media much of that is done by state and federal government dictate and it's the status quo but we the people for now ask you the board to join us in making Frederick County an example for others to follow thank you thank you sir Jerry roll welcome sir hey thank you my name is Jerry Raul you I'm the president of an HOA off of Glaze Orchard Road it's Country Squire homeowners association and I'm here to try yes sir that would be Gainesboro that's correct Gainesboro I'm here to try and get Glaze Orchard on a higher priority to be for the road improvement plan we're currently on a five-year plan and gosh I moved here seven years ago and it was on a five-year plan and I'm over 15 years on 31 years of driving up to this point I've always loved that picture it was On a five-year plan and things have change since the road since there's an entire new subdivision built on Hunting Ridge and Glaze Orchard is an excellent cut through to get Highway 81 it's a beautiful drive through there I invite everybody to come we're part of a road cleanup crew every other week we pick up trash and keep it beautiful that way but this road needs to be paved of our drivers is here today and you got to get in the ditch buses are scraping each other when the road was up actually being planned for improvement there was one property owner didn't want to adjust his corner and so the plan was scrubbed that's now changed this owner is quite willing to soften that corner and make it much safer um there's gosh our my subdivision we have 20 families living there plus another 20 that use glaze exclusively as our way to get in and out of the area but it's um it's gotten a lot busier through there on the list we are on the list and we have we have double the traffic than any other on the list and we're currently number four so um it's extremely dusty and it would um it'd it's a beautiful drive through there you ought to do it sometime glaze Orchard Road it's getting really busy and it's now that we can soften that corner that landowners agree to it we have a lot more traffic we've got the three different buses coming through there we'd really like to see it on a higher priority that's all I have to say thank you sir thanks that's glaze Orchard Road that's the end of the list mr. chairman thank you sir anyone else who came and wanted to speak but did not sign up if you would sign up next time we'd appreciate it sir our citizens watching from way can't hear you if you're not at the mic indeed thank you George Washington used to represent this area in the House of Burgesses but in seventeen twenty-one years the city of Washington was the first to have a mayoral office in the city of Washington and the mayor of Washington was the first to have a mayoral office in the city of Washington in 1796 as president Washington I said in the farewell address to beware of innovations that would undermine or overthrow this Constitution and in the past 25 years we've adopted an invisible insidious innovation called electronic voting and a year ago 24th of May in 13th receptors made the habeas vocal home about the state and the state sixty thirty day campaign to protect people l單 zealand kia necessary construction it now was now available with whatever it may sell fully yet she had to be able to mother through her mother's hands and through the consent of teachers she was able to demand the hand count it showed that the electronic count was 2810 votes short so she That is a clear example of how dangerous electronic votes are. Now in Virginia the Board of Electors in this city can vote to not use electronic voting alone or without the impossibility of the election. to understand the whole picture and to understand the prior illegality of the election in the history of this Senate. Please comment if you would agree with that in listening. voting and do what other, you know, like France does, hand count of paper ballots. France has 65.7 million people. California and Texas combined have 65.5 million people. So if France can do it, so can California, Texas, Virginia, and Winchester. So I encourage you to look at this very seriously because you as the elected servants in this city have the purchasing authority to see that this is a flawed piece of equipment and choose not to use it and go to the contingent plan of hand count paper ballots on election day like France does. So that's why I wanted to share with you and I ask you to please consider it. If I can do anything to provide you with the information that you need, I would be very happy to do that. If I can provide you information to facilitate your decision, please let me know. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else? Yes, sir. You know better than not signing up. I know, sir. I know. Mr. Wells will be yelling at me. You know that. My name is Brian Nury, resident of the Peckin District. I would like to provide a rebuttal to the previous speaker. In the state of Virginia, they require at least three electoral officers per precinct to man all the precincts. So if we were to go to a completely hand counted system, you would have to do one of two things. Either give us a much longer day as an elections official or cut down the number of precincts. The number of precincts increasing those would be more relevant or more doable. However, you will have to staff each one of those with three more electoral officers. The last election, I believe, cost us $175,000. Think about tripling that in terms of, you know, payroll. Also, you would have to start counting those votes that have been mailed in and the early voting earlier because the goal of hand counting ultimately becomes getting those votes counted exactly by midnight. With any system, we all know that you can either get it fast, cheap, or quick. And doing it to get it all done by midnight, it's going to be fast and it ain't going to be cheap. We have to think about that too. The systems work. If you ever have any doubt as to the accuracy of the systems across the state of Virginia, weeks before the election, in fact, this has already happened, you can go to your registrar's office and they will tell you when they're going to do the calibration, the logic testing. It is open and announced to every official that is being elected and it is open to the public. So if you ever doubt the accuracy of the system, come in and check with the registrar. But do not consider something as ridiculous as hand counting. Unless you really want to start jacking up the cost of elections. Thank you. Thank you, sir. All right. We'll move on. Consent agenda, we did. No? How would the board like to handle the consent agenda? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve the consent agenda as presented. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the consent agenda as presented. Board of Supervisors comments, are there any? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you. Just yesterday, this board received some comments from our county attorney regarding some questions we had asked about a year ago regarding funding private schools and allowing this board to fund private schools to assist in tuition in all of students. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. and those are my thoughts thank you thank you sir anyone else hearing none we'll move on appointments to boards committees and commissions how would the board like to handle this it's an information item there are vacancies on the following board and committees the board of zoning appeals for shawn e um shawn eland sanitary district advisory committee and the social services board opecan district um applications are available online moving on 11 a's an ordinance to amend the frederick county code chapter 7 elections magisterial districts section 7-3 central absentee voting precinct the proposed amendment is for the central in-person absentee early voting precinct for all elections to be held at 343 sunnyside plaza winchester virginia effective september 1st 2023 how would the board like to handle this one mr chairman public hearing yes sir public hearing item yes yes it's a public hearing did anyone sign up no sir is there anyone who would like to speak to the organization yes sir i'll swing for a second time illegally my name is brian nury resident of the opecan district early voting has been something that's been extremely controversial on the big screen however when it comes down to actual brass tax to actually doing the work i was there the first year you witnessed it um we had so many voters who came in saying this is such a great service they thought that frederick county was doing this kind of unilaterally sometimes but allowing people to vote before the election a it's not counted until the day of the election so it's just like any other election year but two we had so many people who had sudden plans come up i had one guy who said i am flying out of dallas tomorrow i'm not going to be back until december this is awesome i get to go vote finally i had one One gentleman who came in from the hospital, he's in and out of the hospital so often, he never knows if he's going to be back in by the time anything important happens. He happened to be driving by Sunnyside. He saw the voting signs and he went, hey, can we go vote real quick? This is a really, really, really valuable service to provide for the county because you never know what's going to happen on that day. And not being able to get your vote in that day shouldn't be the disqualifier. If you end up in the hospital, should that really disenfranchise you because of one bad car accident that you're on on that Monday morning? So, yeah, get this ordinance passed because we really do need to have this as a service for the county. Thank you. Thank you, sir. How would the board like to handle this one? I would move for approval of the ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code, Chapter 7, Elections, Article 1, Magisterial. District 7-3, Central Absentee Voting Precinct. Heard the motion. Is there a second? I second it. And a second. Any discussion? Yes, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'd like to ask the county attorney a question, if I may. Yes, sir. If he's willing. Mr. Williams. Is it a requirement that we have early voting or are we allowed to just do voting on the day of elections? Are we allowed as a locality to separate away from other jurisdictions within the Commonwealth? Right now, state law requires the early voting for the full 45 days. And to be clear, this ordinance is not really about early voting. We have to have a central. We had a central absentee precinct before there was ever early voting. We have to have that. It's just obviously because there is early voting. I thought for full transparency of what the effect of it is, is there's the reference to early voting. But if early voting was hypothetically done away with, that doesn't change what this ordinance does. Thanks for the clarification, sir. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I have a question. Would the early voting take place in more than one location or only at Sunnyside, replacing the current voting here at Kent Street? This moves the precincts to Sunnyside. That's the goal of the ordinance. Yes. I just wanted to make that clear to the public and confirm for myself that that was the case. So this only moves, this decision was made previously for efficiency and to make it easier for the public to reach the site. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Would the board like to handle it? We made a motion. There's a motion on the floor, sir. Thank you. Are we ready? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wood? Aye. Supervisor Wood? Aye. Supervisor Wood? Aye. Supervisor Wood? Aye. Supervisor Wood? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. All right. 12A is postponed to the 12th of next month. 12B, draft update to the Frederick County Interstate Primary and Secondary Road Improvement Plans. Is this you, Mr. Bishop? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. As you have noted, this is your draft update of the Interstate Primary and Secondary Road Plans. The Secondary Plan is the one for which the public hearing is actually legislatively required. However, traditionally Frederick County Board does include the Interstate and Primary as primary as informational items. We hold public hearings on all three for consistency and transparency to the public. We're gonna jump right in first to the Interstate Road Improvement Plan and having just one interstate in Frederick County it's not terribly complicated although you see it it calls for a lot. There are not recommended changes to the plan this year but I'll briefly summarize the fact that frankly we call for widening throughout Frederick County which should come as no surprise to anyone and virtually every interchange is calling for some level of improvement. There are a couple highlights I'd like to point out or semi-recent wins for the county if you will. The first of which is Exit 317 which was just approved for the second year I'm sorry the six-year road improvement program to be upgraded to the diverging diamond interchange so between this round of smart scale and last round of smart scale we're looking at approximately forty million dollars in savings. State funds to that interchange to get it upgraded so we're rather excited about that and via the I-81 fund we are looking at widening of Interstate 81 between Exit 313 and 317. That's still a few years off the 27-28 time frame but those those things are underway so that's exciting. As I understand it I don't get too far ahead of myself there is a another effort that's frankly way above my pay grade at the legislative and CTB level to try and expand upon that widening area. Moving on to the primary road improvement plan once again primary roads just for everybody's edification around here that means your Route 37 your Route 11, 522, 57 your two-digit and then below roadways that are not interstates. We're not calling for changes to the primary road improvement plan there's been a lot of changes. There's been a lot of work done on that in the in the past so it's fairly well up to date and as you can see calling for improvements to really virtually all of our primary roadways. I will note that Route 37 that study is underway the one you authorized this last year we had a good update on that actually just today Wyatt and I. So I would expect this time next year when we're updating this plan again we'll either be potentially calling for some changes or very nearly nearly. there according to that timeline and finally I will move into the secondary road improvement program which as I noted is the one that's the legislative required. This first map is what we call the major road improvement projects and frankly both these major road improvements are your projects they are the redbud road realignment and the Renaissance Drive completion both of which are revenue sharing. It's not sparse just because we're being poorly treated it's sparse because under the new era of smart scale these this part of the secondary program is being being phased out for example more recent revenue sharing plans you actually see show up in the secondary the main secondary road improvement plan and we expect that to continue into the future to the point where eventually this component of this plan won't exist. Now move into the one that tends to get the most attention you heard a little bit on it tonight already is the hard surface road improvement program part of the secondary road improvement program. program part of the secondary road improvement program. The only thing I would like to say about this is that this is the only part of the secondary plan and the only part of the secondary plan this is the scheduled list the scheduled list has been updated this year to show the addition of four new roads the first of those appearing at number five there is Clark Road followed by South Timber Ridge then Heifschman Lane and finally Glaze Orchard Road which you heard about just a little bit ago and then the unscheduled list is actually at the shortest it's been in my recollection with the county we did not have new additions this year. this year, so the only real change to this plan was that the four highest scoring projects on the unscheduled list have been promoted to the scheduled list. If I may, hopefully not get ahead of things too much, partially address the comments that were made earlier. Your policy, should you choose to do so, does allow you to reorder the projects. We would need to make a change to the plan. I can answer questions on scoring if you wish, although not necessarily the granular level of how this project or that project scored according to others. But basically, you do have that power, so that's there for you if you like it. I would note that if you caught me texting over here, I was actually texting with VDOT to see if at least that curve that was brought up is something that we could potentially look at under the safety program, and Ed did confirm that we could evaluate that. With that, I can take any questions you may have. The committee, I'm sorry, the Transportation Committee, that is, did review this item on April 24th and recommended approval, as did the Planning Commission, on May 17th. This is a public hearing. As I noted, I can answer any questions you may have. Questions of Mr. Bishop? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two things. First, thank you so much for your due diligence. You've done a wonderful job. I've seen you work very hard over the last couple of years with the monies that you've been given, and I appreciate your efforts. I wanted to just have you for the, for the record and for folks in the audience and folks who are listening at home to have a little background. For 317, we got that $40 million as a smart scale grant. Was that or was that not a direct result of the county putting some dollars forth in the transportation funding? Would you just explain that kindly? Yes, I do believe it was a direct result. Now, there are two awards to which I was referencing. The first award was only for that northbound Interstate 81 ramp realignment. That one does not have local funds on it. However, the board did step up on this most recent smart scale round and just under, just over $7 million was committed by the board of supervisors to that project, which resulted in turn on that specific award, a little over $31 million, I think is the number. Bear with me if that's not exact. I'm going off of memory here, but it was definitely over $30 million toward that project and state funds. So just a question for you, sir, and I appreciate your efforts there. It definitely has yielded dividends already. If additional monies were granted to road funding projects, do you anticipate similar types of returns if we were to allocate additional funds for transportation projects? I mean, I do. The crystal ball is only so clear, and it varies very much by project. But at the end of the day, if you put money on projects, they're gonna score better. That's the way the program is built. Thank you, sir. Other questions, anyone? Supervisor Dunn. Some time ago, Mr. Bishop, we were talking about, you know, we were talking about the fact that the road funding projects that we're doing, we're doing it for the public, and we're doing it for the community. We're doing it for the public. So I was wondering if you could give us a little bit about dealing with I-37 on the eastern side. Yes, sir. Just give us a status on where we are on that, please. We actually had a meeting today with our consultants where we were going, the focus right now is the public involvement component. So for those watching or maybe listening behind me, that's coming at you quite soon, where we established some kind of major stakeholders, you know, big employers, Economic Development Association authority, that is, things like that, through which the consultant is going to be contacting and doing interviews to look at those big users. But in addition, there are also public surveys being developed which are going to be pushed out through every avenue we can come up with. Social media has been very effective in the past. It was very effective on Route 11 North. So those things are on the way. An important theme that we talked about today, which frankly I wasn't planning to get into too much until Transportation Committee, but since you put me on the spot, it's not like it's a secret. And we've been very open about the fact that, you know, this is meant to be a very fresh look at 37. Where it's sort of no stone unturned type view. So one of the things we're being careful with, frankly, without losing the fact that people are very engaged and interested in talking about 37, is the fact that various versions of 37 could be the answer. Meaning, we're really trying to home in on transportation on the Eastern side of the county, as opposed to just 37. Now I'm a little bit of a, you know, certainly I have. I'm a little bit of a, you know, I'm a little bit of a. I'm a little bit of a positive. Yeah. I'm a little bit of a positive. Obviously 37 is at the heart of that. It's always going to be. We've talked extensively about how maybe this means it's limited access. Maybe it means it's not. Some segments maybe are more needed than others. But like I said, it's a no stone unturned, kind of unvarnished look at what the process is. So I'm pretty well encouraged by the update we had today and where it's going. I appreciate that, Mr. Bishop. So basically we're trying to solve the road problem, not just 37, but we're trying to solve the road problem in the eastern part of the county. Yes, sir. Thank you. Other questions? Yes. Supervisor Slaughter. Mr. Bishop, would you also give a recap of how the unpaved roads are arrived at as far as ranking the scoring and such so that the audience does understand that they are scored? And if you could talk a little bit about that. Yes, ma'am. We do have a scoring system, as you know, adopted by the board. I believe the most recent update was in 2007. At which some changes were made. It's been modifications made to it over the years. But basically it's meant to be a non-subjective scoring system. So different items are looked at. Instances of horizontal and vertical curvature. You heard an instance of a horizontal curvature referenced earlier. Get counted along the roadway and go into the score. Number of accidents. Whether a school bus serves the road. How many houses. How many trips. All those items. Go into to create a total score to try and pick the most bang for the buck. The most worthy projects. And is there one 100% right way? No, there's not. But in terms of how we do it, it's definitely not a political process at this point. A lot of effort and thought has been gone into it. And I actually defer to VDOT a little bit. I've been referred now by Ed to many localities that he's worked with showing our process as an example. I think it's important to note that there is a scoring process and that all of these roads are treated equally. There isn't a political process. And each one is evaluated with the same criteria. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Other questions of Mr. Bishop? Anyone? Yes. You and I have communicated and I just want to, if you could, tell people how their project is able to get up to speed. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. On to that list and how, yeah. The key first step is for citizens along the piece that they'd like to see paved is to reach out to us. And then we're going to tell them, get with your neighbors. Fill out a petition. We don't have necessarily a standard form petition. If you've got a notebook and a list of neighbors and their signatures, we'll take what you have. That's not a problem. But we're looking for a majority of the property owners along the segment in question to be on board. We're looking for a majority of the property owners along the segment in question to be on board. For this. Now, not to go too deep in the weeds, but historically, and I think this might have been what was being referenced a little earlier in terms of someone who wasn't willing to give right away. Historically, and I mean significantly historically before my time with the county, which is getting long. But you had to, when you're signing that petition, you had to agree that if VDOT needed right away, you were going to give it. So basically what could happen in those times was one person's not on board. You're not getting on the list. And I think that may have been what happened to Glaze Orchard in the past. Now, it's been on the list again for quite some time, which is evidence of kind of how long it's been since that's been the policy. But because we do these real rustic treatments, but that's what that was referring to. So basically, yeah, give the county staff a call. We will guide you through the process to the best of our ability. We need that petition. I, in turn, take that to the Transportation Committee who considers it. Okay. We do things such as tweak the termini to something that makes sense. If what you've given us only goes from A to B and you've got dirt here and dirt here, you know, we might make some adjustments and say, well, what makes more sense just to go all the way to this point. We'll present that to the committee. The committee will decide if they like it or not and make a recommendation to the board. And then it gets added to this plan at its annual update. Thank you. Anyone else? Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. This is a joint public hearing. This is a joint public hearing between the Virginia Department of Transportation and the Board of Supervisors. Did you have a question, sir? Can you see him after the meeting? Well, it's pretty much public. I'm sorry. I can't hear you. I'm sorry. Come on up. My name is Robert Breen from Back Creek. Thank you, sir. I had a question for you. The Route 11, when you were going towards the 317, Route 11, where it comes on at 37, is a dangerous intersection. Because people coming on Route 11 have to go, if they're going to 81 North or going northbound, they're fine. But if they have to get to the turnaround, and I've had it numerous times, they've come over and stopped in front of people doing between 45 and 50 miles an hour. Now, is that part of the 317? That's not part of the 317 project. That's definitely an issue of which VDOT is. It is aware. It has been looked at hard over the years. It's a complicated issue because you have folks that are coming in at high speed, even though it's supposed to be 40 as 37 comes into 11 North at that point. And you have the people coming off 11 trying to get across three, four lanes of traffic to the left, either at Welltown or at Crown Cork and see them. So there's not an easy answer without taking away movements. So I don't have an answer for you that is going to get solved next week, but it's absolutely on the radar. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, John. Okay. As I was saying, it's a joint public hearing between the Board of Supervisors and the Virginia Department of Transportation. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. Is there anyone who wanted to speak? Seeing no one, we'll move on. How would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would move to approve the updated. 2023-2024 Frederick County Interstate Primary and Secondary Road Improvement Plans. Affirmative motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you. I think what we have heard this evening just stresses the importance of the county allocating funds annually to improve our road systems. For 12 years, this county abandoned our road systems, and we had exponential growth in the county. We funded a lot of money towards emergency services, which was much needed. We funded a lot of money towards our school system, which some would argue was or was not needed. We funded a lot of money towards a lot of things. However, we did not fund a dime towards transportation for 12 years. This last year, the current fiscal year that we're in, we did fund several million dollars, and I'm very much appreciative of this Board's help. That was something I've pushed hard for, advocated for. And as you just heard from Mr. Bishop, that's $7 million. We've put in a lot of money, and I'm very grateful for that. I'm very grateful for that. And I'm very thankful for that. And I'm very grateful for that. And I'm very grateful for that. It has yielded over fourfold what we put in. It has been a great return of tax dollars here, of local tax dollars. It will improve the safety for our students going to school, our regular folks who are just transversing through our county. It is a great investment into our locality. And I would humbly ask that as a community and as a Board, we consider putting tax dollars towards transportation projects. Each year. moving forward. Our locality continues to grow. Our traffic needs don't get any less. They continue to grow. And it is time that we address them as we have done this year. And I'm appreciative of the efforts by Mr. Bishop, the Transportation Committee, and all involved. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. It was my pleasure last year during my first year on the board to also support putting funds against roads. I think it was long overdue. And I think we all appreciate now, and I believe we will keep the momentum up in doing that. I just want to add that it's not just solving road problems, but bringing the community as it grows larger, bringing it closer, keeping it from becoming a big city with disparate communities that don't speak to each other. And by what I mean by that, I've talked to developers who agree with the idea that there are parts of the county where children cross busy roads and we don't have enough crosswalks or lights. We also don't have trails in some parts of the community where they ought to be. There's partial trails and then they just stop for a while. So I think the county can do a great job with a small amount of funds and also qualify for state added funds and improve the county a lot if we continue this initiative. Thank you. Further discussion, anyone? Hearing none, Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. That'll bring us to the Capital Improvements Plan, 12C. Welcome, Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you mentioned, this is your Capital Improvements Plan for the 2023 to 2028 time period. I won't bore you with the full presentation. You've seen this many times already. We're about midway through the entire process and running a little bit behind. But following an adoption of the CIP, we'll move in to update our Development Impact Model and work through the Model Oversight Committee and then come back to the Board with an update to that Development Impact Model. This year's plan is not substantially different in many ways from previous years. There's some reorganization to our parks projects, some addition of volunteer projects to the Fire and Rescue System, the addition of a school project with Jordan Springs Elementary, and then some amendments made by the Board that I'll speak to at my next slide. With the removal of the fourth high school and the inclusion of additions at Millbrook and Sharando, and the final amendment of the removal of the Aquatic Center and ice rink, the total value that we referenced last time in page nine has dropped to 196 million. And for reference, prior to those changes, for your information, it was 418 million. Beyond that, there's really no noteworthy additions. I've had a couple conversations with Board members as it relates to the impacts on the Development Impact Model and proffers, and I'm happy to speak to that tonight. Otherwise, the Conference of Plans and Programs already endorsed this, as well as your planning committee. You all postponed discussion a couple times and authorized it for public hearing on May 10th. This is presented for public hearing, Mr. Chairman, and I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. Questions of Mr. Pearson. Anyone? Hearing none. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? John Jewell. Welcome, Mr. Jewell. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, supervisors. My name is John Jewell. I'm a resident of the Bat Creek Magic Zero District. I'm not going to go on the political side of this. Frederick County has issued the following number of building permits in the last three years. 2020 801. 2021 769. 2022 677. Frederick County has 15 active projects, including the construction of the City of San Francisco, and the construction of the City of San Francisco, and the construction of the City of San Francisco, and the construction of the City of San Francisco, and the construction of the City of San Francisco, including Middletown and Steven City. Middletown has three projects totaling 300 homes. I want to thank Mayor Harbaugh for that information. Steven City has three projects totaling 700 homes when completed. Currently, the incorporated city has 560 homes, so they're going more than double in the amount of homes that will be in that student Steven City, and they're expected to surpass 3500 residents in 2021. And I want to thank Mayor Diaz for that information. Master Development Plan projects, we have 5,325 total residential lots units planned. Almost 2,000 will be single-family homes, over 1,600 will be townhouses, 212 will be multifamily homes, and 1,500 will be mixed family. Lake Frederick and Snowden Bridge are the fastest growing. And I want to make a statement about Lake Frederick, because I've heard this several times about 55 and over. Yes, there is a component of 55 and older, but there's also a component that is not 55 and older in Lake Frederick. So it's important for people to understand that. Snowden Bridge, you've got 1,400 homes still to go there. We have subdivision under development, platted and vacant lots, over 3,000 residential lots and units available. Mr. Chairman, there's a capacity issue with the three high schools, and there's going to continue to be a capacity issue with the three high schools. For years to come, based on the numbers that I've given from the Master Development Plan projects. I want to make sure that everybody here and listening, and I hope it gets quoted in the paper, understands something about the CIP. I'm quoting directly from page one of the CIP. The inclusion of projects to the CIP is in no way an indication that Frederick County will be undertaking these projects. The CIP is strictly advisory. It is intended for use as a capital facilities planning document, not for requesting funding allocations. Good planning means looking at all options thoroughly. Please do not set Frederick County back and take the fourth high school off the CIP. We need to consider this option, and we need to weigh all options. When the county commits to moving forward, we need the experts. We need to be able to do everything we can to make sure that the CIP is a viable option. We need to be able to do everything we can to make sure that the CIP is a viable option. We need to be able to do everything we can to make sure that the CIP is a viable option. Thank you, and I really appreciate all you do. Thank you. Thank you, sir. John Butler. Welcome, sir. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, supervisors, my name is John Butler. I am here from OPCM District. Thank you for the opportunity to come in on the 27th. I am here to talk about the 2023-2028 Capital Improvement Plan, the CIP. I stand in opposition to the four amendments made to the CIP during the 10-May supervisor meeting, which removed the fourth high school, Sherando High School renovation expansion, and ice rink and indoor aquatic center. I'll skip the paragraph which was just quoted. The CIP is used as an input to the county's capital impact model, which provides suggested monetary amounts for developers to pay to offset county impacts. Thank you. Thank you. If a developer is planning on 300 homes, you go to the model, it'll give you a fair county assessment of, say, $20,000 per home, which comes to the county, and then that goes to cover the services that are required by those new homes, fire, police, water roads, et cetera, as you're all aware. The offset's county growth cost, which would otherwise be passed to the taxpayers. Removal of these four items and the CIP this year will likely cost taxpayers, taxpayers on any developments that are negotiated in the coming year. On the four items recommended for deletion, I'm most opposed to the removal of the fourth high school. This is a sad tale. The fourth high school appeared in the SIP in 2005, 18 years ago. In 2012, the Board of Supervisors allocated money to complete the design of the fourth high school, and in 2013, 83 acres for the fourth high school was purchased. That was 10 years ago. The fourth high school was submitted as a number three project for schools division for the 2022-2027 SIP submission, and they moved it up to their number one priority for the 2023-2028 submission. The Board was offered a rough order of magnitude estimate for the cost of expanding current high schools based on toy square footage per student, which would normally be used. Until it was validated by the schools and the architects, it's a two. Actual needs and requirements, that estimate is a little more than a planning factor, and I suspect based on construction projects I've had in my past, it'll fall far short of actuals. More importantly, it's likely to fail to meet the needs of the students, which is in itself inexcusable. I've been unable to validate the student enrollment numbers which were provided to support the removal of the fourth high school. They run counter to county growth estimates over the same period. It's worth further discussion. And further investigation, but does not require removal from the SIP to make that happen. In closing, I ask you do the right thing and restore all four of these items to the SIP to increase county revenue in the coming years development and as a minimum, restore the fourth high school to the SIP. The children in this county are worth our investing in the best education they can get and the facilities to enhance that educational experience. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you, sir. Robert Galilee. Sir. Robert Galilee. Move on. Richard Kennedy. Welcome, Mr. Kennedy. Richard Kennedy, Shawnee District. Thank you, Chairman and other supervisors. My presentation has already been heard here, I think, from you. As I want to reinforce again, I do believe that we need to have that fourth high school. We are, and I have an article right here, per the demographics research group at Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service at University of Virginia, says that this area over the last two years has been one of the fastest growing areas in Virginia. How can we not provide a better education for our students? Robert Galilee. Thank you. Robert Galilee. I again really appreciate the, uh, to the on분 we've had to provide there would be, ah, uh, and, uh, the elementary and high school and then micro school as that would네요 especie ed. information I didn't have a chance toだr f insightful discussionaborate. Thř karaokea oh tryingji b舍ękwè ïrvai Christy Si şu tarê Ka'ána çip Monster underground awarded the specify pqèЗH j Lyn nousșîri nè cskÄzougrẽ rută bu ni vișcomんà näkasi nigam ïĺlâ expertisi-kest 느� tätakdãng și æ étnà cert cái vonseq domène trăieș modemikþ 하고 ngâ son direkčio ardomakersê reit a gìpa´ndãm that rs . say that you know i have grandchildren that would be going into the school and so forth here and i just want to have that best facilities for our kids the other change that was given last time was that instead of you know we take out the high school and put in improvements for 30 or 40 million at a couple locations and so forth well originally there was 125 million at shirando high school that was put into there i don't know what the change is between the 125 and the 30 or 40 million that was indicated in there but there are other factors that go into when you want to make additional improvements into the school system there's a lot of other things that you need to consider when you do make those changes not just the construction costs and so forth that are going on there so again i will leave it with you that i do support that fourth high school our kids our education needs that thank you very much thank you sir laura gerald welcome miss gerald good evening mr chairman and members of the board of supervisors my name is laura gerald and i'm a resident of the opecan district i would like to take to take a moment to encourage you to add the fourth high school back onto the county cip as you know the cip is a non-binding document it does not commit the county to spending any money it merely provides benefits for mill moveable houses and Tao hi good evening All you have to do is look around our county at the number of houses being constructed to know that we are growing at an astronomical rate. Purporting that we do not need a fourth high school is ridiculous. Sharando High School, where my oldest will attend as a freshman this August, ended the 22-23 school year at 122% capacity or 294 students over capacity. In total, our three high schools ended this past school year 600 students over capacity. Frederick County's lack of willingness to plan for our future is a shame, and our students are paying the price. We owe the students in Frederick County the best education possible. Adding the fourth high school back to the CIP will go a long way in showing our community that you support our students. Thank you. Thank you. Sonia Marfaccio-Good. Welcome. Good evening. My name is Sonia Marfaccio-Good. And I live in Back Creek. When we moved to Winchester in 2011, everyone told us it was a great place to raise a family. My husband and I, along with our three girls, have been very happy. We're happy with the public schools they attend. We love their teachers and administrators. And we can't understand why, when we see how fast Frederick County is growing, that our schools, our sheriff's department, our fire and rescue department are not growing with it. Frederick County purchased land for a fourth high school in 2012, I believe. The Board of Supervisors that agreed on this purchase... recognized that Frederick County was growing and that we needed this. But what happened? A new election, a new Board, and the fourth high school gets pushed to the side. Elections have consequences. And this is why we, as residents, should do our research when we head to the polls. As an aside, if you're in Back Creek, please consider voting for John Jewell for Board of Supervisors in the primary on June 20th. He believes we need that fourth high school built as soon as possible. Early voting is underway. Over ten years later, and we still don't have the fourth high school. What we do have is inflation. With the cost of materials and labor doubling, tripling, quadrupling. Our tax money is wasted with every delay this Board takes. Our wallets suffer, and our kids suffer. Our three high schools are over capacity. This is a security issue. When there was a threat at Millbrook, how long did it take to secure the building when the halls are jam-packed? What about the trailers at Sharando? Another security issue. I would hope you care about our kids' safety, as mentioned earlier by Mr. Graber and Mr. Ludwig. This should not be a political issue. This is a political issue. This is common sense. We need a fourth high school, and we need it now. Please add the fourth high school to the CIP list. Thank you. Thank you. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. All right. This is a public hearing, and we've heard from everyone that signed up. Ms. Phillips? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. How would the Board like to handle this one? Yes. Okay. I would like to make a motion to add the fourth high school, the Sharando renovation project, the aquatic center, and the ice rink to the CIP plan. I've heard the motion. Is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to make a presentation, but before I do, I'd ask for clarification on the motion. No. The Sharando renovation project that you were adding back, which amount are you adding back there, Ms. Slaughter? I believe on the original request that we received, and I don't have that CIP in front of me, but I believe it was $100 million. $125 million? $125 million. Is that what you're adding back? Yes. Okay. I'd like to give a presentation, if I may. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, before I begin, I'd like to just share a few facts. If it costs us $131 million to build a new high school, I think it is absolutely insane to spend $125 million to renovate a present one. In fact, according to our school superintendent's own comments, he has stated that it is not beneficial to spend greater than 75% of what it would cost to build a new school on a renovation project. Therefore, I think it is blatantly a wild misuse of county funds. to even consider a $125 million renovation project for the Sholando High School. But that being aside, I'd like to address a couple other comments before I get into my comments this evening, my presentation. There have been some discussions about weighing all options, and I think that is exactly what this board, especially myself, Supervisor McCarthy when he was on this board, Supervisor Dunn in previous years, and others, have asked the school board to bring back to us multiple options, not just one option of this is what we want, but here's different options and how we can get there. I know we've asked for that on multiple occasions and have not yet received that in any format. We've simply had, we better have this fourth high school and we've got to have it now. I'd like to put it in perspective for you. In 2013, when that land was purchased, if we'd have built a school right then today, at that time, and as has been stated by Ms. Jarrell this evening, we are 600 students over capacity of our current schools right now. A 1,250 school capacity built in 2013 would not even be half filled today. Not even half filled today. Your words, not mine. On the screen up here is a list that comes from the Frederick County Public Schools. In fact, if you would scroll up on the top of that, Mr. You can see where that came from, Dr. Hummer. Thank you very much. And come on back down to the numbers. These are the numbers that were presented by the school board on projected capacities that the school board has offered. I've asked from the school, two school board members that, you know, I'm not going to say who, but I'm going to say who, I have the opportunity to speak with on a pretty regular basis. Two questions. The first question I asked them is, do you believe that this information is accurate? And both of them said no. So then my next question was to them, if you don't believe that those numbers are accurate, why did you vote to add a fourth high school, to renovate a high school, or any of the decisions that you made, if you don't believe the information that you were given is accurate? I haven't gotten a response yet. I'm still waiting. Why would this board make a decision on spending $256 million on inaccurate information that the school board themselves says is inaccurate? It doesn't make any sense at all to me. Now if you go back and you say, no, I agree, this information is not accurate, why did you proceed forward? Why didn't it stop at the school board level, and why didn't we go back to staff, and I believe Dr. Hummer would do a good job and do due diligence, I've seen him working, would do due diligence to get us a good number of what these projections could look like, and I think he could bring those back to the school board and I think we could have a good discussion. Just for the record, so everyone here knows and everyone watching at home, school board chairman Monk, I believe, has been asking for four months for a joint work session between this board and the school board and has yet to receive it. Now they did meet with the chairman and vice chairman of both boards, did meet in the last week, if I understand correctly, to begin this process of discussing these numbers, but how in any sane and rational mind can you make a decision based off of numbers that the schools themselves present that they state is inaccurate? It baffles my mind. Next slide please. Before you, this is from the Department of Education, and you've seen this a couple times, so nobody can say this is the first time that they've seen it. Broadway High School was also built in the 90s, Broadway High School was also received, or Broadway has received exponential growth similar to what Stephen City is going through at the present time. They're having to do an addition onto their school, and this contract was signed in February of this year. Rockingham County is a similar demographics to us, is expanding their schools, and it's going to cost $12,741,000, seven, I'm sorry, $12,741,500 in order for them to do so. I've used their same construction costs to allocate the proposal in which I proposed, and I'm going to be using that to do so. And I'd ask that you put that up next. Next slide. Before you is the construction costs based upon Broadway's figures for their school. It is a school just like Sherando that was also built in the 90s. What you will see up there is the cost per student based upon a 400 proposed student increase capacity for Sherando High School, and I would propose the same for Millbrook, built-in inflation, and then also the replacement of the known issues with the present facility. It gives you your total cost per school to make renovations. It is a good number. It is an accurate number, and it is a number that I have run by. Some of the folks who are working on our present James Wood renovation project. These are the folks that are doing the work today in our own school district and know what the costs are. These are good numbers. Next slide, please. Here's the budget scenarios that we as a board of supervisors had to look at this last year. Scenario A is the scenario that I asked for because I felt that we needed to preserve some funds so that we would have some funds available for road projects, school projects, or other projects that might be needed within the county in coming years. I was overruled on that. Scenario B was the scenario that four supervisors voted for. Scroll down just a little bit, sir, to the bottom of that sheet there. Thanks kindly. What you see in scenario B is we pulled $7,700,000 from the funding from the capital fund. Had you voted for it? Going with scenario A, we would have not pulled that $1 million from the capital fund as I proposed an amendment that we pay our teachers the same salary increase that our staff received. Our staff received a 5% pay increase this last or this coming budget year, 5%. The school teachers were getting a 6.8% which equated to almost a $2 million reduction from their budget. I ask that we pay our teachers, give our teachers a 5% salary increase just like we gave our law enforcement personnel. Our fire personnel and all the other personnel within the county. If we had reduced that 2 million from the school's budget and reduced the teacher's pay from 6.8% additional to 5% as all other staff employees got, there would have actually been a net $1 million surplus using scenario A. How does that affect things? If you go to the next slide, please. On the current projections, since scenario B was selected, we are going to add a $1 million surplus to the school budget. We are going to add a $1 million surplus to the school budget. We are going to add a $1 million surplus to the school budget. We have to continue to maintain the positions that we hired for this year and the money, the $7 million that we used, 7.7 has to come from somewhere. Our natural organic growth this last year was approximately $5 million. Our organic growth does not cover just the expenditures alone. We went above and beyond this year. Therefore, we will have to continually dip into our capital projects fund to pay for things. As you can see, it does not last very long. Two years from now, we will be in a deficit of $15 million. That does not allow us to continue to grow. That does not allow us to continue to grow. That does not allow us to continue to grow. That does not allow for any additional monies for schools or for other items that are needed projects in Frederick County. My question down there to Ms. Slaughter, who made this proposal, as well as to Supervisor Wells, who seconded this proposal, is how are you going to pay for this? Don't tell me that just because they're on the CIP doesn't mean that they're going to get funded. I haven't seen very many projects get funded that haven't come off of the CIP on my tenure or in my time here on this board. They've all come from the CIP. If they're on the CIP, they're likely going to be a project that will be utilized or funded by the CIP. And it will be the justification for funding them. Therefore, we have to do one of two things. We have to find other areas in which to cut funding so that we don't have a massive tax increase. Or you find a funding source to find a way to pay for this. But I want to tell you something. Just a loan to fund the things that were done this year is going to be a 20% tax increase somewhere along the line to pay for things. If you add in these additional proposals, if we fund them, if we fund them, if we fund them, if we do a renovation of Sherando High School, which needs to have an expansion, if we do $125 million instead of the $30 million that I proposed, you will see a massive tax increase. Couple that with the fourth high school of $131 million, you're talking about $256 million, or roughly half again of what our current budget was for the fiscal year for Frederick County. I don't see where you're going to get the funds. You're either going to make it impossible for folks who have lived here all their lives to continue to live here. We're going to be Loudoun County ETA part two, or find me a revenue source. I'm all ears. I'd love to see a good data center. I'd love to see a good manufacturing company. I'd love to see some good things come in here that would help offset our taxes. But right now, with what I am currently projecting and looking at, the dollars aren't making sense. Would you please go to the very first slide again, sir? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . So now my question stands. My question stands to the school board. My question stands to the planning commission who forwarded this to us. My question stands to my fellow board of supervisors. How in the world are you going to make a decision on information that we know is false? Thank you very much. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. One or more speakers questioned the numbers I used in projecting the school population. So let me reiterate how that was done. The numbers I used on the original calculation were the ones as published by the school system in their budget last fall. Those numbers are similar to the memo that Supervisor Graber just showed. They show a declining high school population in the county. Now I personally don't believe the high school population is going to decline. And I've spoken with various, Superintendent Hummer and others in the school system, and I believe what we have is a situation where the school doesn't have the right data. They only are projecting on perhaps birth and death rates within the present population of the county. They are not projecting properly for county growth. So for me, the jury is out on how much expansion is the right amount of expansion. This is not an insoluble problem. As Supervisor Graber pointed out, the county in league with the school system should be able to come up with good estimates that are both historical and database, such as on the polling of building permits, so that we will know the right course to take. If we make a mistake, we'll have half empty schools. And we'll be putting the taxpayers on the hook for, well, according to this proposed this motion, hundreds of millions of dollars if we were to fund them. Another item, I don't understand the part of the motion that says to restore the fourth high school and at the same time include the Sherando renovation at the very high figure of $125 million, nearly as much as a new high school. And here's what I don't understand about it. First of all, the number of $125 million for a renovation is almost surely based on a quick response from builders or from some databases. What would happen if you had a building of that size and you tore it down to its basic structure and utterly rebuilt it? That is not the situation at Sherando High School. It does not need to be torn down and completely rebuilt. That number is just completely wrong. And it shouldn't go into our CIP at that. And it's just not going to happen. The only way to get that number through is to go through the research by Supervisor Graber into the databases that the state creates and provides for counties like ours on which to create a rule of thumb for estimating what the real projected construction cost should be for new schools or for expansions. It was excellent work and it's excellent data to go on. So an expansion, a renovation and expansion of Sherando would be much more like the numbers 125 million. The next point on that, the memo in March from the new superintendent never asked for the renovation and expansion of Sherando High School to be in our CIP. The memo says that that work would not start till later, more than 10 years from now. I believe the school systems plan is to propose the fourth high school as the solution for the current overcrowding and coming additional growth, which is difficult to estimate currently until we get better data. The memo states very clearly that after 10 more years both Millbrook High School and Sherando High School will no doubt be in need of renovations, the roof will not be 4 years old as it is now, it'll be 14 years old, and etc for the rest of the structures. So, that plan is logical and if we would really fill the fourth high school and it is our best and cheapest option, if we were going to fill it in four or five years, then that would be the plan to pursue. But we definitely wouldn't spend a hundred and twenty five million dollars on Sherando High School, which was not asked for. I believe the county needs to be sensible in its plans, look at alternatives, get better data for the coming enrollments, and you know, I think that's the plan. I absolutely oppose this motion to do both. Basically, we're solving the problem that we imagine without good data and we're solving it twice. We're building, spending twice as much as we would need to, to even solve the problem that you all perceive and have spoken on. So, I am not in favor of creating an unrealistic CIP, it would push us to over four hundred million dollars in the CIP plan, which is maybe eight, ten times what the county budget could possibly be over that time after having talked to the county administration. So why would we create a CIP that's completely unrealistic? It just doesn't make any sense to me. I would prefer to work with the school board to help them with the data that we have as a county to come up with much better estimates of growth and then pick the right plan. If we need a fourth high school in four or five years, let's absolutely build it. If we cannot fill it, then let's create a plan that is fair to the taxpayer, but that does resolve the overcrowding in our schools. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir? I'd like to make an amendment to the motion, if I may. All right. I'd like to amend the motion that we remove the Sherando High School renovation and expansion of $125 million. And in its place, put a $30 million renovation and expansion project for Sherando High School. That we remove the fourth high school and in its place, put a $30 million expansion and renovation project to Millbrook High School. And that would end my amendment. Third in the motion. Is there a second? Second. End of second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman, go ahead. Go ahead. Mr. Chairman, the rationale for this is, if we do a 400. Student capacity expansion to Sherando, and we do a 400 student capacity expansion to Millbrook and renovation projects, it allows those schools to be in service for many years to come. Between 400 student capacity in each school, that's 800 students, with the anticipated between 200 and 250 additional student capacity we will gain. When James Wood is completed, we will have 1,000, roughly, additional seats. As has been stated this evening, we are, and according to projections, we are approximately 600 students over capacity. That would leave us, give or take, between 400 and 500 additional empty seats to allow our students to have a good education, a good opportunity to be in safe structures, no longer be in trailers. And it would allow for additional growth within the county. As Supervisor Ludwick has stated, if the numbers show in three, four, five years when they start looking at the building and different things that have occurred, that additional capacity will be needed. We will have the 400 to 500 seat capacity at that point in time. And if we can't get that point to carry us, to cover us, as the fourth high school is being built, it is a logical approach. It is a sensible approach, and it would utilize facts instead of emotions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. And this might be a question for staff. If there's a dollar amount on a renovation or an expansion, et cetera, how binding is that or not? So, for example, if there's a dollar amount of $120,000. $2.8 million or $30 million or whatever, are we bound by that? I know that goes into your profit situation, but does it make a difference on what we do? Because if the objective is to simply solve a problem without putting dollar amounts on it, but just how do you solve the problem first? So I'm curious on what the restraints are, if any, on a dollar amount. You're not necessarily bound by it in any sense as it relates to implementing the project. The dollar amount should be reflective of the anticipated cost. Because your model for cash. Proffers needs to be fair and reasonable and meet that test. So that's the only advice I have as it relates to how you value the projects. So if you have a proper, if you have an amount of $30 million, you got one proper. If you get a math amount of $120 million, you get a different proper. Is that correct? Or so this school schools in particular don't a dollar per square foot basis for when calculated in the model. So depending on which. Grade in school system we're talking about in the district in particular. If you had a. So use the fourth high school in the additions as an example. Fourth high school at 130 million providing a certain number of square feet comes to a dollar per square foot calculation. The additions at 30 million. I think providing 400 in capacity. Is that right? Mr. Graber comes to a different dollar per square foot calculation and the resulting choice that you make is. What influences the proper amount. So if the dollar per square foot is higher for the solution to address capacity than the proper amount is higher because development needs to pay for each individual seat. Assume you're not it. Okay. So if. Mr. Graber's amendment were passed. And the board of supervisors, the school board over the course of the next year start to work to come up with a solution. Um, are we bound by that number? Can can the dollar amount? Be greater for expansion or not? Following adoption of the C. I. P. All work to smooth out any changes in the model and then propose what I consider to be a reasonable approach for calculating that cash profit to your oversight committee for the model. And then the board will adopt the final model. And we can dig into that. At that time. Um, so therefore I'm not putting on a spot. Just try to get a thought process. So therefore, from what I'm hearing you say. Is whether you have a. Is whether you have a lower amount or a higher amount. It does not limit. This board of the school board. As they start to go through the analysis on whether there's a fourth high school or additions or whatever. Does not limit them on their outcome or decision making. Is that correct? My only concern as it relates to the model would be if projects were removed and there was no solution proposed to alleviate overcrowding. If there's more than one solution in there, I think we can work on the back end. To pick what will be the first fix essentially and use that in the model for the preceding years. Does that answer your question? I think so. What I'm hearing you saying is that whatever number is picked, it can be adjusted if the real numbers start to work through the problem dictate that. Yes, sir. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to put Mr. Pearson. I will put him on the spot. Just a little bit. So you mentioned that the revisions last time brought the CIP down from a figure I believe it was 418 million. Something like that. And you had also just mentioned that we need to have a CIP that I think you used the word fair. Fair in the creation of the proffers. The current, the original motion if we added all the items removed last time and also the Sharando renovation at 100,000. What would that mean? I don't know. I think it would be a renovation at 125 million. I don't know if that was removed or is to be added on in addition. Would that bring us back to 418 million, the original motion or even higher as you understand it? I think it would bring it over because the original motion kept in the additions as I understand it. It was adding the fourth high school in but it wasn't removing the Millbrook or Sharando additions. So it would be 60 million higher than your previous figure of 418 million. So would you, this is where I put you on the spot. Do you think $478 million is fair or reasonable for something this county would be doing over the next five years or could possibly do? No and I think we talked about this the last time and then again over email. Viewing the capital improvements plan through a lens as if it's going to be implemented over five years creates this fallacy because the plan has never been predicated on actually building all the projects in the next five years. That's why there's a category for beyond that timeframe. As it relates to fair and reasonable for the model, the example I'll provide you is the Sharando renovation. That entire $120 million is not captured in cash proffers as part of the model because it does not all add capacity. And you can't charge the development community for the maintenance of the schools. You can only charge them for additional capacity incurred by their projects. So it gets complex once it's complete. And that's why I've struggled to do that. Okay. I'm sorry to give you all clear answers as it relates to how these items influence that. Thank you. Does that answer your question? It does. So we would be adding then the 1,250 seat capacity of a fourth high school if we added it into the proffer because that's new. And however many hundreds of seats that the renovation of Sharando was originally proposed would be adding. That would also be added into the proffers. And from projections to me that seems much larger than the student population we could possibly have in the next five years. But again I look for better numbers. So there was a part B to the question and I've already forgotten it. I may jump back in. But so the current motion is to renovate to the current amended motion is to renovate two high schools. So those would be chargeable to the proffers to the degree that they were adding seats. And I believe it would retain the other projects removed because they were not taken out with the amendment. That's the aquatic center and ice rink. So those costs would also be added in. Can you offer a ballpark figure of where we would be in the CIP under the amended scenario as we're talking about now? Okay. I can't do it off the top of my head. So. I can't either. Around 500 million if not just over. I'm assuming our 418 million dollar figure last time we spoke included the parks projects. And so really the only addition that has occurred to this point is the two the Millbrook and Sharando addition. The amended motion would take out the fourth high school. Oh, okay. So subtracts. And the 125 million dollar expansion and replace it with two 30 million dollar expansions. So I'd be curious to know if we could do a ballpark on where that would be just under the scenario we're discussing right now. And I'll yield to Supervisor Graber. I would just say Supervisor Ludwig just based on the rough numbers it would be around 256 million with the amended motion. So the original motion would be to remove the 418 million. So the original motion would be 418 removing the fourth high school, removing the 125 million dollar Sharando project. And then adding the two 30 million dollar projects. We would go from 196 add the 60 million roughly 256, 260 in that neighborhood. 260 million I believe. Thank you. Thank you very much. And in discussions with Mr. Pearson and others in the county. It seems like that would be at least two and a half times. Any historical projection of what this county would actually spend in five years. So we would still have a CIP that's two and a half times larger than any realistic estimate of possible spending over the five year period. Thank you. Further discussion anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Graber. So I thought your amendment was to cut the Sharando amount from 120 to 30. Is that it or did I mishear you? Yes sir. I moved to eliminate the 125, 125 million dollar renovation project. Again in its place put in a 30 million dollar Sharando renovation and expansion. And then instead of the fourth high school at 131 I asked to remove it and put it in its place. A 30 million dollar renovation and expansion to Millbrook High School to add 400 seats and renovate that school as well sir. Okay so you're basically, so basically you would have taken Mrs. Slaughter's amendment and you then, which included a aquatic center and a fourth high school. Okay. And you've replaced it with these two. So at the present the aquatic center and the ice rink are still on the table. What I, the only things that I have removed are the fourth high school and the Sharando project at 125 million. And in its place I've asked to insert a 30 million dollar renovation to Sharando and a 30 million dollar renovation expansion to Millbrook. Okay. Thank you. I, Mr. Barno, I'd like to go and, or I'd like to go to Mr. Slaughter. I'd like to go to Mr. Slaughter. Okay. Mr. Slaughter. Mr. Slaughter. Mr. Slaughter. Mr. Slaughter. Mr. Slaughter. Mr. Slaughter. Mr. Slaughter. Mr. Slaughter. Mr. Slaughter. Mr. Slaughter. Mr. Slaughter. I'd like to go and, or I have some comments to make on budgets and I'll have some comments to make on this. So if you can go and put up this presentation on how we're going to get started with Sharando. I'm going to go and I'll put up this presentation on how we're going to get started on Sharando. Okay. Put up the original first. This is the first tab, please. So what you see in front of you is the same information that Mr. Graber had. These are the budget scenarios that were presented for us a month ago, and that's what is here. Scenario A had a 51-cent tax rate. Scenario B had a 51-cent tax rate. Scenario C had a 61-cent tax rate. Mr. Graber was the only person that advocated or asked for that 61-cent tax rate. Nobody else talked about it. Mr. Graber asked for the 61-cent tax rate as an option, and no one considered that as we went forward with the budget process. Then go to the second tab, please. The second tab is simply the items you see on the first tab for the results. So, for example, on the top line, you have $238 million in revenue. The county thought there was a million dollars of additional revenue they could have. There was a request for the expenses of $232 million, offering increases of $12 million. The staff made a cut of $4.9 million, so they came up with expenses of $240 million. I'm just reading down column A. That meant that there would have to be additional proposed... The county then turned around with additional proposed budget cuts of $4.5 million, and that created a surplus of $3.4 million. The difference between Scenario A and Scenario B is that in Scenario A, there was a $200,000 contingency cut. In Scenario B, there was a $700,000 contingency cut. That was a $500,000 differential. In both cases, $1 million was taken out of transportation. There was $6 million in this transportation fund, and in this additional cut, $1 million was removed. If you then go down through in Scenario A, one position was funded for $66,000. In Scenario B, 17 positions were funded for $1.4 million. That then left $3.3 million in Scenario A for schools, and it left $2.5 million in Scenario B. You want to scroll up again a little, please? Stop, stop, please. Okay. So then we went down to the school budget. The schools then requested $9.2 million operating funds. In Scenario A, you had $3.3 million. In Scenario B, you had $2.3 million. In Scenario A, you had $2.5 million. In Scenario B, you then had $5 million, which was taken from capital for operations. $690,000 was taken from capital for school buses, and $971,000 was taken from the school CAP. The original request was $1.2 million, so that was a slight cut for CAP projects. Then coming from funding, from capital, in Scenario A, there was $1 million, which was re-put back in. In Scenario B, there was $2.3 million, which covers the transportation needs of the $6 million. That same million dollars was put back into Scenario B. Then in addition, as I stated before, you have $5 million from operating, $690,000 for schools, and $971,000 for CAP. You have $5 million from operating, and $971,000 for CAP. That is the $7.7 million amount. Scroll down further, please. Keep going. Stop. So, we're going to go through the process. We're going to go through the process. In the discussion on salary increases for the schools, every 1% salary increase would have cost the school budget $1.5 million. That information comes from Patty Camry. That information comes from Patty Camry. If you had a $3.3 million bonus, If you had a $3.3 million bonus, that would allow you to have a 2.3% school salary increase for staff. There would be no money for buses, no money for CAP. If you had a 1% salary increase for staff, you could also fund the buses and the CAP. If you had a 1% salary increase for staff, you could also fund the buses and the CAP. In scenario B, that did provide the money for a 5% pay raise for schools, for school employees, and to fund the six buses, and to fund the CAP. We see where it says results, salary increases, buses and CAP. If you add that up, the 5% salary increase would be $7.5 million. The school buses are another $690,000. The school buses are another $690,000. The school maintenance and capital projects was $971,000, which comes up to be about $9.1 million, very close to the $9.2 million. Scenario B met some of the very goals that some supervisors here wanted to achieve, but were not achieved under scenario A. but were not achieved under scenario A. That helps to address the differences. That helps to address the differences. It's not a right or wrong answer. It's a policy discussion, policy items. Certain people have different policy choices, Certain people have different policy choices, and that's what we're having here. The next comment is for this Administrator. The next comment is for this Administrator. Mr. Graber made a comment showing Mr. Graber made a comment showing us running out of money in a couple years if we continued in a couple years if we continued on the way we were doing. Those numbers are good if we have a worst-case scenario. If we have a best-case scenario, If we have a best-case scenario, those numbers are a lot different. Mr. Administrator, Mr. Administrator, is it correct to say that the items that we showed earlier, that we showed earlier, of a worst-case scenario to a best-case scenario are varied on the out years? are varied on the out years? Mr. You're talking about the expenses going forward in five-year analysis? Mr. Yes, sir. Mr. You were discussing the Mr. You were discussing the Mr. You were discussing the Mr. You were discussing those items based on protections on their work. protections on their work. Mr. There we go. Mr. You take a certain amount out each year. On the projection that was used for the five-year analysis capital funds, for the five-year analysis capital funds, if you remember in the first year, that was $9 million. That was coming off the modified capital five-year plan. It also took out, if memory serves me right, a certain amount of transportation each year. That was one version. I ran about five or six versions. I presented two at the workshop. It all depends on the assumptions you use using that model. If you use an assumption without taking any out of the capital or to pay for the capital five-year plan, that number changes. You could do that a multitude of ways. Mr. Thank you. Now to continue to the discussion on the amendment on the floor. Thank you, Mr. Verner. I think we're good. For the discussion on the floor, the real question is, what are the capacity needs of the schools? Five years ago, we had a problem with $9.x million, $9.2 million, $9.4 million to build in addition to Millbrook, which would solve the problem for about 400 students, 20 classrooms times 24, 480 students. The school board turned it down, but this board did say we recognize the problem and how do we go forward doing it. On the capacity problem that we're dealing with, the real issue is how to solve the capacity problem. It's not do we need a fourth high school or do we need additions or something like that. The question is how do we solve a capacity problem. I think in that sense, everything should be on the table. So here are some thoughts going forward on this. For those of you that say we just want to have an addition to Sherando or an addition to Millbrook, take Sherando first. There's 10 or 12 trailers behind that school. What do you do with the students in those trailers that you build an addition there? That has to be thought out. You cannot build a two-story building in three months there. Second question. In Sherando, the same question for Millbrook. How many students can you have before the gym and the cafeteria are overflowing? So I'm going to pick a ridiculous number. But if I told you that we're going to add 10,000 students to Millbrook and 10,000 students to Sherando, everybody here would say the building can't handle it. From what I've been told in Sherando, students begin lunch at 10.30 in the morning, some of them. And other students are having lunch at 2 o'clock in the afternoon. And the reason is that the cafeteria is not big enough to hold students from, you know, 11 to 1. So that's an issue. And if you add additional students to there, how is that issue addressed? On the gym, how do you address the size of the gym for classes? And this is not a right-wrong answer, but those are thoughts that, you know, I've been asked and I don't have an answer for that. On Millbrook, there's an area behind Millbrook and up toward both Sherando and Millbrook in the last year. You can build in addition to Millbrook. And if you put 400 seats there, does that meet the needs of the county or not? Does it buy time then to go to a Sherando building extension there or not? And if you go and do that, again, does the cafeteria, the gym, hold the students that are coming in there? I don't have an answer for that. I'm not an expert on that, but that's the question that I'm asking. For those that say we ought to build a fourth high school, it's a done deal. My question to you is, show me the numbers. How do you support a fourth high school if you haven't seen a comparison with the other options? And so, on this amendment that Mr. Graber has, I'm not as focused as much on the numbers as I'm saying how do we solve a problem and get good numbers? Walden Cooper has given us good numbers on county growth for the last 30, 40 years. If Walden Cooper can go and do a projection on 20 year projections, you start in 1980, arbitrary number, 1981, 1982, you see how close the numbers are to being actually correct 20 years later, gives you the variance to see how accurate they would be on going forward. And so if you can get good numbers on population and then get good numbers as Mr. Graber said on students, you start to come into a more focus on what do we need and how to meet the problem. Ambivalent on whether we have a renovation of 128 million in Sherando or a renovation of 30 million in Sherando, I won't say I don't care, but I'm not looking to have the answer to the economics here. I'm saying how do we solve a problem and what's the best way to solve that problem? On this amendment, I'm inclined to support it as long as it doesn't interfere with other items, but the timeout. That's not true. I'm not going to take the fourth high school off and this amendment takes the fourth high school off. I would like to see a fourth high school on the CIP. I would like to see additions to Sherando and Millbrook on the CIP. The reason I made the question to staff on dollar amounts, whether it's 30 million dollars or whether it's 120 million dollars, it's not money that we're spending today. It's simply a number. And then you can go through and work the numbers to see what the actual cost is and compare a fourth high school or compare the other two, Sherando and Millbrook extensions and see what those numbers are, see what it works. So I can't support this the way it is. I could support if you want to reduce the amount because it doesn't have an effect on the renovation for Sherando. 125 million dollars is a whole lot of money. I agree. But I want to see real numbers going forward before we commit. So I'll summarize it this way. I think we need to see a capacity. And when you look at capacity, everything ought to be on the table. And the reason everything ought to be on the table is because when we get into this in the fall and start to crunch real numbers, I don't want somebody to say, well, you know what, we didn't have additions to Sherando so we can't consider it. Baloney. Put those on there. Or I don't want somebody to say, we didn't have a fourth high school so you can't consider it. Baloney. We need to put it all on the table, work the numbers in a rational situation. This is not political. This is how do you solve a problem. We may agree or disagree on that. And that's all we're trying to do. So I'm looking for the best answer to solve that economic problem going forward. Mr. Graber, if the fourth high school is including your motion, I can't support it. Your efforts to try to reduce the other amount was a positive one. So thank you. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make a couple comments here. I appreciate your work there, Supervisor Dunn. However, there's some glaring evidence that has been left out of that and I'd like to just update you on that. The number that I gave, the total dollar amount, is a total dollar amount that includes the gym, that includes the cafeteria, that includes the dollar amount needed to renovate and expand the gym, to renovate and expand the cafeteria, to cover those costs. If you look at a purely square foot amount for instruction in the Commonwealth of Virginia, it's 56 square feet per student for student education. The additional square footage that's built into this, from the 56 square feet to the 150 that I use, 150 square feet per student, if you go look at my algorithm that I shared tonight, allows for that additional square footage to be built into the gyms and to be built into the cafeterias, which also alleviates the problem of cafeteria times and alleviates the times of the gyms. So I wish you would have done a little more due diligence there to find those numbers out before coming to here and making this presentation. One other item that I'd like to bring forward to everyone is, is I'd like you to go review the tapes. If you go back to January to present, and I have pulled them as a FOIAs, if you look at the what was advertised, the 51 cents versus 61 cents, I not once advocated for a 61 cent tax rate. There were four supervisors on this board that advocated to advertise for a 61 cent tax rate. They were Supervisor Dunn, Supervisor Slaughter, Supervisor Wells, and the Chairman. I voted for a 51 cent rate to be advertised. The reason that I asked the Chairman for a 61 cent rate to be put on there was so that we could compare numbers to see what you were asking to have advertised, what that would bring in, versus what I asked to be advertised. I ask you to pull the tapes. Listen to them. You will see that I not once asked for anything greater than 51 cents to be advertised. In fact, I asked for 50 cents at one time, which is a reduction in what you would pay in your taxes. One thing that I strongly dislike, and that is to be misquoted or lied about, and I feel that that has happened this evening. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What about in that? Just this. Mr. Graver, you had just asked for the 61 cent scenario. I did not say that it was all. You were just in the back room and simply asked for the 61 cent scenario. We would never support that you had asked for that. And then the other question, okay, I'll just leave it at that. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, can I speak? To the motion. Yeah, exactly. Only to the motion. Correct. Thank you. Listening to this, it's really hard. I agree with Supervisor Graver and Ludwig in that it's really hard to make a good rational decision based on the numbers that we've received. I also agree that these may not be accurate numbers. So it's really hard for us to sit up here and spend and say, yes, we've won a fourth high school when the capacity is just not there. However, that being said, I don't think that those, I do believe we're growing at a rapid rate and I think we need better knowledge. Mr. Pearson, I had a question for you. If we were to put that fourth high school on, and of course if we built it and we're only at 600 children, then any new development is not actually paying because cash proffers, as you had mentioned, right, would only be on overcapacity. So while I can sympathize with people saying we are overcrowded, if we put this fourth high school on, plus we do a $125 million renovation to Sharando, no new development will be paying for years to come, and that's bothersome to me. So do you have any clarification? No, that's right. If there are open seats and they do zoning comes in, you cannot collect cash proffers on the open seats. That's contrasted against the guidance provided by the state that when your high schools, or any schools, I think reach 80%, you need to be working towards a solution for it. So it is a delicate balancing act to not be overcrowded, but not be so under-so that you can't collect proffers for future improvements. Okay, so it sounds like you said 80%? I believe so. So it sounds like we are definitely needing a solution based on the numbers we have. I don't know what the good solution is until we maybe get better numbers. So what about pushing this off until the school system can come up with or that joint meeting that has been addressed? I don't know. From staff's perspective, if preference is what you're asking, you have some well-vetted options that are currently in your CIP, and it seems like there's continued discussion as it relates to the others. I think it may be appropriate to direct the school board to give you some information as it relates to next year's CIP on some of those items you're unsure about, and adopt one for this year so that we can work to update the model. But that's my preference, obviously. Okay, thank you. Alright. We have a proposed motion to amend that removes the fourth high school. Uh, removes the renovation of 125 at Sherando, adds 30 million renovation, um, adds 30 million to Millbrook. That is the motion. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Sorry. Broke my lid. Supervisor Slaughter. No. Supervisor Wells. No. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Dunn. Nay. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. The noes have it. That proposed amendment is non-void. Um, the original motion was to add the fourth high school to the school. The fourth high school added a 125 million dollar renovation to yeah. Sherando. Sherando. Thank you. And? It added back the aquatic center and the ice room. Yes. Okay. Mr. Chairman. We finished discussion of that one. We did. We haven't discussed. It was immediately amended after being proposed. I pulled up the email I received on the Sherando, that we all received on the Sherando expansion from the schools. I forwarded it just now to Mr. Varner. If he could display it, that would be great. But if he cannot, I'll just read through it here. Great. Thank you. I'd like everyone to be clear with regard to this Sherando renovation. As clear as we can get at this point. And see if you scroll. Yes. Scroll down to where it says good afternoon, Mike. And below that, there we go. That's the email from Superintendent Hummer to the county administrator asking it to be passed on to us. It's long. I'm not going to go through it all. I would just ask everyone to look at the first bullet. So this is about information on Sherando renovation and expansion. And the first bullet says, the building will be 30 years old this fall. So he's referring to this fall coming yet. And we anticipate that it will be 40, will be around 40 years old when the project begins. Thank you, Mr. Varner. So just to make it clear, the proposal was never to do a $125 million expansion on Sherando simultaneously with building a fourth high school. The proposal from the Frederick County public school system was to do that beginning in more than 10 years, or 10 years from this fall, more than 10 years from today. So I think it's a dreadful mistake to put in both. It's putting the county taxpayer on hook, in theory, for $125 million more than was ever asked for. It makes the proffers completely unreasonable. It makes the CIP 8 to 10 times larger than anything realistic It may open us up to lawsuit for all I know on the calculations on which we would do the proffers. And I would suggest there's another reason not to overbuild. Supervisor Lockridge pointed out that we couldn't collect proffers if we make a mistake and overbuild. It could be even worse than that. The new governor, Governor Youngkin, when he got in had his number one priority to put aside significant state funds to counties like ours who needed new school facilities. He would like to see that program would help us build a fourth high school or a charter school, which serves the same purpose of expanding our high school capacity. We have an election coming up in just a few months. He's only a few votes shy of getting enough support to pass that bill. He's given every indication that he still wants to pass that bill. If we put this on our CIP or worse, show that we're prepared to pay for it ourselves with our own money, we could disqualify ourselves or reduce our ability to get state funds, which could be coming as early as next winter. I absolutely do not want to see us put in our CIP something that looks like, could easily be seen as overbuilding and disqualifying us from not just proffers, but from state funds. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you. I concur with Supervisor Ludwig's comments. I believe it's reckless and irresponsible for us to move forward as it is currently proposed, and the rationale is the same. Ten years out with this proposed renovation or addition, it shouldn't even be on this year's CIP. It's for the next five years as I understand it, and then there's another period of time for six to ten years. The $125 million is not it doesn't show an indicative of any additional student capacity or anything there. Therefore, I believe that we are robbing those folks who are coming in and paying proffers to our system. It's not a fair or honest ask of those folks because as has been stated, we would be grossly over capacity if we did both and had them on the system within the next five years. We have to have some conversations here on what is in the long term best interest of the county, and we have to be honest not only to our citizens, but to those folks who are also coming in, building homes, doing other things. We cannot take advantage of folks by putting both of these on a one to five year plan and getting proffers to build both of them. It just does not make sense. I think this is, as I said, reckless and irresponsible, and I think as Supervisor Ludwick alluded to, it opens us up to liability and lawsuits, and to be quite frankly, I would encourage it if we're going to be that negligible. Thank you. Negligent. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes. If I may, if I understood Mr. Pearson correctly, adding the renovation does not, it is not computed into the calculation for the development impact model. The only thing that is computed into the development impact model calculation would add capacity according to what you had said earlier. Is that correct? That is correct. We would get with the school district and get a ballpark idea of how many seats they envision for that project to add, and I think in the past it's been primarily a renovation project for Sherando prior to this year's discussion about additions. Okay. And lastly, adding this item as a consideration does not in any way commit this board to funding any of these items as we've seen with the Station 22 in this last budget cycle, which had been on our CIP since 2008. And once we hit certain levels of 80% capacity at Lake Frederick, at that point we were to build the new fire station to address the population increases. So placing this on the CIP, again, does not commit this board to funding. It only allows us to have the conversation and explore the various options as to whether we add on to a school, we build a fourth high school, but at least we have all these options available to us. That is correct. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? All right. I've heard the motion. Here I am. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Supervisor Graber? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? No. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Now we're going to move on. Discussion, ordinance, amendments, and discussion are all in the motion. All right. We'll move on to the next item. The next item is the shipping containers. Thank you. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. The proposal to allow shipping containers are what is known as prefabricated durable steel intermodal shipping boxes as accessory storage and structures only in the R.A. Rural Area Zoning District. As part of this ordinance amendment, we would also expressly prohibit shipping containers as an accessory structure and storage in our other residential districts. That would be our RP, residential performance, our R4, our residential planning community, our R5, our residential recreational community, and our MH1, mobile home community district. Containers that are being used as storage in the R.A. district under this proposal would still need to meet the applicable setback requirements for accessory structures in that district, and they'd be required to have a minimum of a 15 foot side and rear setback from property lines. The item that's presented to you this evening is the exact item that was presented to you nearly five years ago in 2018. At that time, it went back and forth several times between the board, the planning commission, the development review committee, and there was no consensus reached on how best to regulate this item, and it kind of just died on the vine at that point. Again, currently, the zoning ordinance does not expressly prohibit or permit shipping containers as an accessory structure. In practice, the zoning administrator has prohibited the use of shipping containers as storage in all of our districts, except where they were accessory to intermodal freight activities. That would be in our industrial districts. The lack of a codified requirement has created an enforcement challenge for staff, and staff would note that shipping containers, as they are just rolled off a trailer, are not regulated by the building code, and they don't require any kind of building permit, so they're in this kind of gray area of regulation. The development review and regulations committee has discussed this item two times in March and April of this year, and what came out of that discussion was concern with allowing containers in the RA district without any further restrictions. The planning commission discussed this item on May 17th, and they offered for the board to consider specifying a six-acre minimum in the RA district. That would be that where properties are six acres or more, they would be allowed to have shipping containers as an accessory storage option, and that if they were under six acres, they would be prohibited, and to continue to prohibit shipping containers in all the other residential suburban zoning districts. So this evening, staff is seeking some direction from the board on the item as presented, and if that item is ready to go forward for a public hearing, or if there are additional changes that you all would like to see, and I'm happy to answer any questions and speak to the issues pertaining to shipping containers to the best of my knowledge. Thank you, sir. Questions? Mr. Tyler, if you have shipping containers on six acres or more, are they meant to be screened? Are they open? Is there anything in there that discusses that? The only consideration that's presently included in the ordinance would be that meet the applicable side and there were setbacks, that would be 15 feet. In previous discussions that were had by this body, I think you were there in 2018, Mr. Dunn, there was discussion about screening them. In the Planning Commission's discussion of six acres or more, they felt like six acres, larger properties, bigger gaps between the residences on each property, they wouldn't see the shipping containers. So that was the consideration that was given at that discussion. So there was no consensus on the other things that have occurred here on that. So if I have a bright orange item versus a green item, no consensus was done on screening. They did not offer consideration of screening only that consider acreage minimum. Thank you. Questions? Anyone? Yes, sir. Just as a simple follow-up question to Supervisor Dunn's, but kind of different as well. How many complaints do you know have we had on shipping containers? Has it been a problem in the community? We have had a handful of complaints. They vary based on where they are in the county, primarily Shawnee land, given the size of the lots, the proximity of the residences to one another. We have not, it's not a pervasive problem, but we ran into a challenge this year with the use of a container on an R.A. piece of property, and you all were shared that memo from the county attorney advising on how we would pursue enforcement of that challenge. Rod certainly can speak to that a little bit more, but we do get the complaints. Complaints in Frederick County come to us from property owners making the complaint. We're not actively out there looking for them, but as you know, if you drive around, you do see them out there. So just a follow-up question. Does the county use shipping containers anywhere? There is a, what used to be a shipping container being used as a bus stop in Shawnee land. I think that's what you're referring to. Those containers are heavily modified. They've been cut open. And they are, given their size, they're not regulated by the building code, and they've been modified. They're not a shipping container like you'd see just plopped on the ground where the back doors are wide open and they're going in and out. They've been cut open and reinforced to be used as a bus shelter. So have they been engineered or what, are we putting our children in a shipping container that's not engineered, that's possibly unsafe? Is that what I'm hearing? To our knowledge, they have not been. There was no permitting and no site plan, but they were modified and are being used. So I want to make sure I understand this properly. The county is presently using shipping containers to house students that has not, that has been modified, that has not had a building permit and does not meet any current building codes. Is that correct? They have been modified, they've been substantially modified where they're no longer being considered a shipping container, and given the size that they are at, they do not require a building permit because they fall under the threshold of square footage that triggers a building permit requirement. Very good. Thank you. No more questions. Other questions anyone? Mr. Chairman. So I'm led to believe the county has pursued some enforcement, citation, fine, whatever, against the user of shipping container in the RA district, one or more users. Is that correct? That is correct. And we withdrew from that enforcement action eventually? I will defer to the county attorney on that enforcement action. I did not feel we could prosecute it. The ordinance regulates use, and there was no evidence that it wasn't being used for anything other than agricultural purposes. So in that case, we allowed it to continue because the use was agriculture, and it was in an agricultural district. So it was a use that we said was permitted. Likewise, it seems the county has decided that shipping containers, albeit modified, without permitting, can be used as bus stop shelters, and we have done so in two cases. My concern is that banning them in other districts, clearly the county's found another use, which it's decided is a permissible use of shipping containers. Who are we to say that there's not other permissible uses out there that make sense for taxpayers, for landowners? And if we pass this ordinance, we would be taking a right away from landowners without allowing them to present their intended uses, and who knows how many people in the further future who haven't found need of them yet to come forward. That right once, always with the government, once a right is taken it's forever gone. So I really think this deserves more thinking as to the possible uses or whether we should be passing ordinances that restrict individual rights in any case. Further discussion, anyone? Yes, sir. This isn't a question for Mr. Tyler, this is just discussion among the board. Is this appropriate, Dan? This is discussion. Okay, very well. I would concur with Supervisor Ludwick. I absolutely cannot see us as a board wanting to regulate this if a person in R.A. is a five acre lot, which is what we require to be built upon here in the county, in most instances in R.A. If you want to put a storage building, a.k.a. storage trailer on there, shipping container, then I believe you should be allowed to do so. I think the county needs to get out of the over-regulation business and allow folks to use their property in a way in which they see fit. As was stated previously this evening, it's not for this board to determine what's an eyesore and what is not. It's time that we get out of mitigating squabbles between neighbors in this capacity. As far as I'm concerned, I believe that this needs to be completely scrapped as is presented and allow us to start over with allowing shipping containers in any R.A. district, regardless of lot size, and not enforced and move forward. Just get the government out of it in its entirety. As it's currently proposed, there is no acreage minimum set. That was a recommendation from the planning commission. So right now, R.A., irregardless of the lot size, it would be permissible under the proposal that's presented this evening. Okay, so it was my understanding that we were considering or discussing the proposal from the planning commission, which included that six acre track. They did not make a, they did not reach a consensus on recommending that. They just offered that comment for consideration by the board. Very well. Further discussion. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. So the, then to be clear again on what's been brought forward, so there was no acreage restriction in R.A., what would be the situation for permitted use of shipping containers in let's say in an R.5. district? The other R. districts, R.P., R.4, R.5, are a suburban style of zoning, even Shawnee Land. Shawnee Land zoning of R.5 is the same as Lake Frederick, so think about it in those terms. The lot sizes, the common open space, and the shared amenities, it is treated as a suburban style of zoning. It is not R.A. And that's why we were recommending, or proposing rather, that it be restricted in those districts. When you have lot sizes that are a quarter acre or less and you put a 12 by 40 container on there, you can see where there potentially could be a problem, but every lot had that on their property. So what is the restriction exactly that we'd be imposing on, let's say, R.5? They would be prohibited altogether. So the county can use them in R.5 after modifying them, but because it's cheaper for the county and saves us trouble, we don't have to buffer. It doesn't matter if it's an ISO or not in the public's view, but private citizens cannot use them. I cannot speak to what was done by the county as far as the bus stops go. Okay, can we see the pictures, Mr. Varner? Mr. Chairman, if I might interject, just one point of clarification as it relates to Mr. Ludwig's comments. Our office was in no way involved with the review as it relates to those bus stop shelters and know that the purpose for bringing this ordinance amendment back is to garner your thoughts on it and you can forward it to public hearing however you think is appropriate to address it. We use this standard as a starting point because this is where the board left off in 2018 on it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. So this is a picture of one of the bus stops. It's a little bit distant. That is a shipping container used on a public road. The bus comes up for students. Next picture, please. Here's the other one. View, I guess, from the back. Once again, very public. You can see the road we drive by and that's where the students would wait. This apparently would be permitted and fine. Next picture, please. Here's a picture of one. Good luck finding it. I admit that this was done by a county commissioner, so the resolution isn't as good. It's not a fair comparison. I don't want to be accused of being unfair. But I've zoomed in on this picture and it's naturally buffered quite a bit in its current use. This is one that would be banned. Next picture, please. This is another one. This was... I couldn't find it in this picture. The other one I was able to. So this is another one that we would ban. But if I understand right from where these pictures are taken, and yet it's buffered. It's far less of an eyesore than our use of them as bus stops. Next picture, please. So this is slightly different. This is... There's none here, so that's not a trick question. This is a county maintenance facility in, I believe, Shawnee Land. It is immediately adjacent to the public roadway. When you drive by, this is permitted either because the county permits itself to do so, or perhaps the logic is the use of it. It's a roadway maintenance, and so because that is, in fact, I guess a permitted use in that zoned area, that we don't have to buffer as a county. There's no acreage requirement. It can be as much of an eyesore. We can pile gravel, sand, leave construction equipment year-round there, but there's no proposal in this ordinance to improve the visibility of this facility. So I really think we ought to reconsider the ordinance. If our goal as a county is to make ourselves look pretty and to remove eyesores, then I think we should do so consistently. We should apply the rules to the county that we're applying to the taxpayer and landowners, and apply it to different kinds of uses. It should also be applied, if we were going to do shipping containers to dumpsters. There are landowners who have large dumpsters, the way you've seen outside businesses or even the landfill on their property. This ordinance doesn't cover that. So I'm just not in favor of this ordinance the way it's been developed. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman, may I ask a staff question? Staff certainly understands the board may want to allow these in whichever districts and can proceed accordingly. Question is the second sentence of that draft language and Mr. Klein, if you could put up the draft language. Don't believe I have it on the slide. It's not on the slide. Never mind. It's chopped up into this. It's in the materials. What it said was shipping containers are allowed in all other zoning districts as an accessory use or storage and should meet the applicable setback requirements for accessory uses. Question staff would have for clarification is whether the board would want to still while allowing them in all zoning districts, that's fine, impose the setback requirement. And the reason I ask the question is they're not structures. It's solely a use. So therefore, my interpretation is if that sentence doesn't go forward, if somebody places this one one inch from their boundary line, their property line, it would be allowed. And that's just the one clarification staff would need as far as whether to proceed forward with anything. Question. Yes, sir. Mr. Williams, if it were a building, you know, concrete floor, wooden or cinder block, that would require a setback, correct? So from my perspective, it looks very much like a building So I personally would say there ought to be a setback requirement the same way you'd build a building. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. So I understand Supervisor Dunn's comments. There's just one difference between this and a building. A building has usually a wood frame as far as roof structure. Most times it's wooden trusses, maybe asphalt shingles, things that are going to burn. These shipping containers are a complete metal structure. It's fully enclosed, except for the roof. Except for one end that opens up unless they're modified. So therefore, if one of these were to catch fire, it would pretty much be self-contained to the container unless it had been modified. I would be very much to the thought of allowing these unconditionally in an R8 and R5 structure where we're using them as a county in an R5 zoning district along with the current allowed uses, which I believe is in the industrial settings, we're allowing them already and allow them to be right up to the property line. With the understanding that they are not being altered. When you alter these, it is a completely different scenario. As you saw with the ones that the county has altered, they now have open spaces, large areas of open spaces, and if they are packed full of hay, wood, or other items that could add to the fire load with open spaces, it no longer would be a contained fire per se. So I think that this board needs to really consider this in two ways. First, do we want to allow modification of these or not allow modification of these? And then where do we want these? And I don't think that at the present time we have had the conversation enough to forward anything to public hearing without having some of those discussions. Thank you. Anyone? Alright, we're going to move on. Board liaison reports, are there any? Hearing none. Citizen comments on any issue you might like to bring before the board? Did anyone sign up? Ms. Phillips? Jeanette McClellan. . . . Can't hear. That's fine. Name and magisterial district please limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. Thank you. Amy Shaffert, Back Creek. It's very obvious to me that each one of you cares a lot about Frederick County, so thank you for holding this meeting. I believe all of you received an email in regards to 901 Aylor and that the date was pushed back for the sale of that property and that maybe one or two of you asked what would be the plan for 901 Aylor. So I've been working with colleagues and I will make sure that this entire paper gets emailed to you, but I'd like to just outline a little bit of what could be the plan for the community. A workforce incubator would act as a central hub to foster innovation and fill in the gaps between high schools, colleges, and vocational technical institutes. This incubator would assist the community in assessing existing resources through programming and funding specialists. This new facility would include the following programming. Co-working space, community kitchen, a maker space, community garden, event space, community resource specialist, incubator farm, tool library, media center, regular library, cafeteria, general store. Other amenities and programs could include a gym, daycare, wellness center, playground, workshop hosting, crowd funding resources, venture partnerships, job exchange boards, mentorship programs, and more. The resources established by this incubator would serve community members of all ages, creating a multi-generational exchange of knowledge and wisdom. This facility would also serve as a new outlet for after school or vocational enrichment activities, providing children and teenagers practical education activities that foster teamwork, creativity, confidence, and well-being. The deeply important foundational experiences offered will greatly contribute to effective local leadership development in a flourishing community. Approaches like this have been proven in several cities throughout the country, and our local group has been researching and refining this concept for several years to more precisely benefit Winchester and Frederick County. Working with local businesses and stakeholders, we hope to provide a finalized plan within the coming days, and we are grateful for the board's consideration and service. We have a great community and the skills needed to pass on innovation and healthy community building are already here. Please find a fellow citizen and start believing the answers are in teamwork and helping one another. Thank you. Thank you. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment period. Board of Supervisors comments? Mr. Chairman? I have three quick comments. June 19th is Juneteenth, a federal holiday passed by the Congress. For those that teach history, and for those that know history, just remember that June 19th only freed slaves in Texas. There were still slaves after June 19th in Missouri, 40,000, Maryland, Delaware, and New Jersey. And they were not free until the 13th Amendment was passed in December of 1865. So when you learn history, June 19th freed the slaves in Texas, but not everybody just recognized that that freedom didn't occur for another six months for everybody else in the country that was free. Secondly, today's June 14th, Flag Day. We have a great opportunity to appreciate the freedom we have in this country. You don't have it elsewhere. If you go to foreign countries like China or North Korea, you just don't have what we assume for granted. So just be gracious with the fact that we have the freedom here and Flag Day is important. Lastly, in this country we all have the opportunity to vote. There's a Republican primary on June 20th. Take the opportunity to vote. It's something that not everybody in the world can do. So take that opportunity and make certain you vote. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Other Board comments? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'm disappointed that this Board continues to approve budgets and plans that are not realistic. This Board approved a budget that will be approved next year that deficit spends by millions of dollars. Contrary to Supervisor Dunn's comments, he did vote to advertise a more than 20% tax increase on citizens. And he spoke in many forums thereafter in favor of increasing county spending. In the end, he voted for the deficit spending scenario. I think it's misleading to continue to suggest to the public that Supervisor Graber was in favor in any sense of a tax increase scenario. I can assure you that Supervisor Graber is correct. The only reason he insisted that that be in the plan is so that we would understand, as taxpayers, exactly what was being proposed or at least what was being contemplated by the four supervisors who voted for that 61 cent tax increase. Now we've passed CIP that's maybe 10 times what this county could possibly spend. That is going to be very difficult to calculate proffers on. It includes a $125 million project that was not even asked for. So, hopefully in the future, this board will address, will not continue to overspend, will not attempt to do all those projects and will work in this coming summer and fall to get accurate figures. We need to build facilities, schools and others, that are right for the students, right for the teachers, right for the taxpayers, right for businesses, and right for county planning. Thank you. Anyone else? I'd kindly like to, sir. Yes, sir. It is very important, my friends, that we do go out and vote in the Republican primary on the 20th if you are Republican and choose to vote. Your vote does matter. It will set the tone. For whether you have a tax and spend person in Richmond or whether you have a true conservative in Richmond come after the November election. You know, voting does have consequences. And as we have seen tonight, the votes taken this evening were to considerably, or were laying the groundwork to considerably increase your taxes for years to come. You cannot simply say that we would like to have this, this and this, a fourth high school, a $25 million Sarandos expansion project, and all the other items that are listed here with no way to pay for them. It's kind of like telling a child they're getting candy and then taking the candy away from them. It doesn't work. For the life of me, I cannot understand why this board would make a decision off of faulty numbers. It makes no sense to me when the board chairman of the school board as well as other members of the school board have flat out stated that the numbers that were presented it just baffles me, the intelligence or why someone would make a decision based upon known inaccurate numbers. It doesn't make any sense. For those folks who said they cannot get a hold of the numbers that I showed this evening up on the screen, I intentionally showed everyone where they came from. They came from our current school superintendent, Dr. Hummer. I've appreciated Dr. Hummer's honesty. I've appreciated Dr. Hummer's work ethic. And I've appreciated what he has tried to do during his short tenure on the school board. I will only hope and pray that Dr. Hummer will go back to the individual who compiled that list of numbers and come with a more accurate array of numbers for us that they both feel comfortable with and confident that are accurate numbers so that they can make informed decisions and we can make informed decisions. Unfortunately tonight, it was exemplified to this county that this board is willing to make decisions that are unverified and that the school board is willing to make decisions that are unverified and that is scary. To think about the dollars and cents that are being paid for by every tax dollar that are unverified. It makes no sense to me. My friends, it's not a good way to do business. Thank you very much. Yes, sir. Just a quick comment. You've heard us all talk. Impact fees on newly houses built would help to address some of this issue. In the last 10 years, we've had 6400 houses built. If the cost of those houses that have been built $27,000 each had been collected, you'd have $172 million. So we could have another longer discussion, options on real estate taxes, impact fees, etc. But we are laying out some solutions to try to solve that problem. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman, if I may. You just stated that you've laid out some solutions. I would really strongly appreciate hearing what those solutions are. I haven't heard any solutions from you on obtaining that $172 million. So at some point in the future, I would appreciate hearing how you would obtain that money. Whether they be additional taxes, whether they be fees that you add on, how exactly those monies come to. I've heard you talk about going to Richmond and getting them to allow proffers. And I agree that that would be a wonderful way to offset some of those costs. So, 60 seconds. So I've gone to VACO to address that issue. This year, it was the top priority for the high growth group at VACO. No one in Richmond would sponsor a bill. I think that we can draft a bill that addresses this issue. You're welcome to come join with me this summer. I think it's next month on that. You're welcome to come with me in Richmond. I've testified there as well. So that's one. We can talk about this more if you'd like. You know, at another time, I think most people here want to go home. So that's my comment to you, sir. Motion. Vice Chairman Dunn. Mr. Chairman, I motion that we adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. This body will stand adjourned. We thank you all for your time, your patience, and your dedication. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
