Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2024-02-21
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=213
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The other side. So resolution of appreciation for Mr. William Orndorff. He's been a member of the Planning Commission. Whereas Mr. Orndorff served as a Stonewall District Representative on the City of Orndorff, he was on the Frederick County Planning Commission from the date of his appointment by the Frederick County Board of Supervisors on December 8, 2021. And whereas William Orndorff served on Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committees and the Development and Review and Regulation Committee during his time on the Planning Commission. And whereas William Orndorff assisted in the update of the Northeast Land Use Plan, the Standard Industrial Classification Code to North America, the American Industry Classification System, update to the zoning ordinance, and strongly advocated strongly for the revision to the technology manufacturing park zoning districts. Whereas during the period of his membership in the Commission, William Orndorff demonstrated both great insight into issues which face the Commission, a keen sense of dedication to the betterment of his community and an underlying defense of the city, and the defense of the citizens of Stonewall Magisterial District. And whereas William Orndorff possesses the highest devotion to duty and represented the citizens and the County with dignity, dedication, and wisdom. And whereas the members of the Planning Commission wished to express their gratitude to William Orndorff and to recognize his faithful service while wishing him well in his best next endeavors. Now, therefore, be it resolved, that on this 21st day of February, 2024, Frederick County Planning Commission does hereby officially express its sincere thanks to William Orndorff for his commitment to sound planning, his tireless participation in activities of the Planning Commission, and its various subcommittees, and his overall dedication to the County of Frederick, adopted this 21st of February, 2024. Thank you, sir. We had a similar resolution for Page Manuel, who was unable to be with us this evening, but that'll be delivered to him at a later time. Thank you. Thank you. With that, we'll move into committee reports. First committee report I have is the Comprehensive Plan Program Committee. Mr. Triplett? Yes. We had a meeting February the 12th. It was an information discussion on the Capital Improvement Plan. And I won't elaborate anymore because we'll be discussing this later in the Agenda 6A. Thank you. Thank you. And the next item I have is Frederick Water. Do we have a report from Frederick Water? Yes, we do. Frederick Water had a Board of Directors meeting Tuesday, which was yesterday, February 20th. In that meeting, they approved the Inner County Service Area and the associated available fees and supplemental base rates. This ICSA funding program was created to fund the sanitary sewer improvements at Lake Frederick, Clark County's double toll gate area, and what they're calling the larger triangle of Frederick County bounded by Front Royal Pike, Lake Frederick, Hudson Hollow, White Oak, and Tasca Road. They also, at the board meeting, adopted the 25, fiscal year 25 to 34 Capital Improvement Plan. And they approved the Sheets Middletown Frederick Water Memorandum of Understanding, which will facilitate the extension of public water and sewer to the proposed Sheets location, at the Reliance Road and I-81. They also updated the board on the positive recharge of the area's raw water source, the quarries and the wells, and the rain and the snowfall in the recent months have helped that. Thank you very much. I'll provide a report from the Transportation Committee. There were several items here relative to us. The first is Virginia Highway Designation for Wardensville, and the second item was the reduction of the speed limit for the area's the section of Route 55, basically west of Strasburg, out to the West Virginia Line as a scenic Virginia byway, which was intended to facilitate additional tourism in that area. There was a speed limit on Back Mountain Road to 45 miles per hour. There were several speed limits on Back Mountain Road. This would make the speed limit 45 miles per hour throughout the length of that road. There was an update on the Route 37 study that's ongoing. There was an update from the Metropolitan Planning Organization on the transit study, an update on Capital Improvement Plan, which we'll hear more about later tonight. And our representative to the Commonwealth Transportation Board, Mr. Mark Merrill, was there and spoke of changes that are being made to the smart scale application process that will hopefully benefit Frederick County. With that, Winchester Planning Commission. Yes, our big news as of the meeting yesterday, in a 5-2 vote, we approved or motioned to send to Council recommending approval of a rezoning of Wards Plaza. This is going to be the crux of a new neighborhood design district. We intend it to have a grocery store, two apartment buildings, and several different types of houses, townhouses, 2 over 2's and 1 over 1's. So it's going to be a good mix of retail and residential. And the surrounding area in the future will also be made to support this new grocery store, store and development so that's our big news lately that's exciting thank you and mr. Lira our new supervisor from Shawnee district welcome we're glad to have you with us this evening and do you have a report from the Board of Supervisors sir thank you for the welcome no I don't have a report from the board okay very well that moves us to item 4 on the agenda which is citizen comments we'll open the citizen comments for any items not before the Planning Commission tonight on the agenda or for public hearing if you have a desire to speak before the Planning Commission please state your name magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes please it's anyone wish to speak seeing none I'll close the public comment period we'll move into public hearings the first is a public hearing regarding the home and cottage occupations mr. Klein yes good evening mr. chairman members of the Planning Commission this is the first of three ordinance amendment public hearings before you this evening this is a proposal to amend the regulations for our home occupation and cottage occupation to address stated concerns from the Planning Commission the Board of Supervisors and the public about operating a home and cottage occupation in Frederick County you all are quite familiar with these uses I am sure a home occupation is an occupation or profession carried out fully within a dwelling unit there are no employees except those residing on the premise and we limit home occupations to no more than 5 customers per day a cottage occupation is a bit more intense than a home occupation it is again carried out within a dwelling or we allow cottage occupations in an accessory drill in our building we allow one employee that's not residing on the premise as part of a cottage we limit it to five or more customers per day. And a cottage occupation does require a conditional use permit. So you all recall over the years, we've had a number of cottage occupations, most recently a plumbing business come before you all seeking a conditional use permit. So we've proposed a number of changes, which we think expand the allowances of home and cottage occupations to address, again, some of the concerns primarily as it relates to employees. So with the home occupations, the proposed changes are shown in yellow. We would continue to allow them only in a principal dwelling, however, on RA property, we would allow it in a detached structure. We would also allow, we would limit it to no more than five people not residing on the premise, but we would further specify that that five person limit includes employees or customers. So whereas before we did not allow employees, now we would allow a home occupation to have an employee plus up to several customers a day, no more than five. And we would also include an allowance for a commercial vehicle. We're finding that a lot of businesses do have commercial vehicles and they need to park those on their premises. So again, that home occupation remains a buy-right use. It's allowed in all of our residential zoning districts in the RA district as well. And we would increase the allowance for an employee in a commercial vehicle. Cottage occupations again, remains mostly unchanged. We do allow, we would expand that allowance for customers and cap it at 10 people not residing on the premise. And this would be including customers or employees. And we will allow for one or more commercial vehicles. Cottage occupations would continue to require a conditional use permit. They would be considered on a case by case basis by the planning commission and the board of supervisors. And obviously as part of that application process, they would provide all the details of the nature of their business, the number of employees, the number of customers they anticipate coming and going from the premise on each day. And you all would be able to evaluate them on a case by case basis. Again, still requires a conditional use permit. So what are we doing? We are going to be seeking this evening, following a public hearing, staff is requesting that the planning commission provide a recommendation to forward to the board of supervisors on this proposed ordinance amendment. Of course, happy to answer any questions you have on this item in particular. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Are there any questions for Mr. Klein? To my right here. No questions to my left. No questions. Thank you very much. This is a public hearing. So I'll open the public hearing to anybody who wants to come forward and speak. I would ask that you state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes, please. Anybody wish to speak? Hearing none, we'll close the public hearing. Is there any discussion among planning commissioners? My left. Ms. Brannon. I like the changes because it's more friendly for, for small business getting started. Yes. Agreed. Motion for approval as presented. Motion for approval and a second. Second. Further discussion. Okay, Mr. Triplett. Akins, yes. Kozo, yes. Carnes, yes. Thomas, yes. Mullen, yes. Markert, yes. Brumbach, yes. Grinan, aye. Moran, aye. Luce, yes. And the motion carries. Next item is a public hearing. Ordinance on accessory dwellings. Master development plans and definitions. Mr. Klein. Yes. This is a batch of a series of ordinance amendments to make kind of cleanup changes to our ordinance. And again, you noticed it was accessory dwellings, master development plans, and other minor text amendments. The first as it pertains to our accessory dwelling rules, this is a proposed amendment amend our secondary and accessory uses section to establish a new minimum square footage allowance for accessory dwellings making that minimum square footage allowed as 500 square feet or 25% of the gross floor area whichever is greater the way that this works is when somebody applies for an accessory dwelling we review the existing the primary structure square footage and typically would calculate what their allowance would be up to 25% of that principle in some cases people were getting an allowance of less than 500 square feet and when we discussed with the building official about what the minimum square footage was for accessory dwelling we got about 475 square feet so we rounded that up to 500 and we found that people were getting even less than that they weren't able to do an accessory dwelling because when they went to the building official and went through the building permit process they weren't able to do the kitchen the living space the restroom and the bedroom in that square footage allowance there's minimum square for each of those components of a dwelling and that's what we established a new minimum of 500 square feet everybody would get 500 or 25% whichever is greater and again it's currently limited to only 25% next item as it brings to master development plans this is a minor change to remove a remaining reference to a public meeting component for master development plans many of you will recall back in 2021 we removed the public meeting requirement for public master development plans where we used to come to the Planning Commission the board and just present you the plans there was no action by the Planning Commission of the board there was no public hearing component it was just a more for your information and there's one extraneous reference to a public meeting requirement that's left in the ordinance and we would like to remove that section just to have clarity across all of the references to master development plans the final item is two separate changes really to terminology and definitions the first is to amend our definition section to remove and update language that does not conform to the state and federal government regulations and the second is to amend or change the federal definition for intellectually or developmentally disabled persons it pertains to the definitions for family home group homes and the like the second change is a proposal to update the word use of principle where it is used incorrectly instead of principal that's that easy way for me to remember saying it and when referring to a primary structure this is our extractive manufacturing district again it's just an update to terminology to make it correct and its usage so again this is a public hearing item and following that public hearing item the state is going to be able to hearing staff is seeking a recommendation from this body to forward to the Board of Supervisors on these ordinance amendments. Thank you. So the 500 minimum square footage, if somebody did want to build that 475, they couldn't? They have to have the 500? They would have to meet the minimum, correct. Yep. The reason being is they, under the building code, like I said, each component of a dwelling requires a minimum, so we rounded that up to a nice kind of round number. And is this assuming the accessory dwelling is connected to the existing septic, or is that something? The existing septic? Sorry, the existing septic? Yes. As part of the building permit, if the property was on a septic and they were trying to add an additional bathroom, they would need to have an analysis that the system performed that they could handle that increased load on the system. If their existing septic could not handle an additional restroom, they would need to expand their septic as part of the building permit process to demonstrate that they could handle it on their site. Mr. Chairman, just one clarification on the question that was asked. I think Mr. Klein answered it appropriately, but our ordinance would not mandate that they do a 500 square foot accessory dwelling, but they would have trouble meeting building code by not doing that. But if they could meet building code, they would have to do that. Okay. But if they could meet building code, Okay. But if they could meet building code, Okay. But if they could meet building code, we wouldn't stop them from doing less than that. Okay. All right. Good. Very good. Thank you. Anyone else? Any comments, questions? Okay. This is a public hearing. I'll open the public hearing. Anyone who wishes to speak to this matter, please come forward and state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes, please. Would anyone like to speak? Go on once, twice. Hearing none, I'll close the public hearing. Hearing none, I'll close the public hearing. Any discussion among commission members? Seeing none, I'll be glad to entertain a motion. Move to approve as presented. Sorry, tongue tied. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Okay, Ms. Brannon? Yes. Brombeck, yes. Markert, yes. Molden, yes. Thomas, yes. Kern, yes. Kozo, yes. Aikens, yes. Yes. The Chair votes yes and the motion carries. This, along with the previous one, will go to the board of supervisors on April the 10th. Mr. Lera, give you something to look forward to. The next item is a public hearing regarding an ordinance amendment to telecommunications facilities. Mr. Klein. Good evening again. This is our final ordinance amendment consideration this evening, and this is a proposal to amend the supplementary use regulations for our commercial telecommunication facilities to modify the criteria, which the board, Mr. Lera, is going to adopt. The proposed language is that the board of supervisors considers a waiver to the setback requirement for those facilities. Presently, the board of supervisors may reduce the setback proportional to the height of the tower no less than half the distance of the height of a wireless facility or wireless support structure. The proposed language would effectively allow, in cases of the setback, that when a Virginia professional here, they can receive a certification for a fall zone, which is maybe smaller than that original setback, and if it's, you know, a fall zone, then it's a fall zone. So, if it's signed and sealed by a Virginia certified engineer, the board may consider a waiver. We've also added a statement at the end of that proposal that states that the setback distance shall not be reduced to less than half the distance of the height of the wireless facility or wireless support structure if the adjoining property is zoned for residential use or if the principal use of the adjoining property is a residence. So, in cases where that reduced setback was sought on a common property line where the adjoining property was residential, we would not allow them to step back. Mr. Klein. We would not allow them to step back any less than what is currently at the ordinance effectively, so. Yet another public hearing item and following your discussion in the public hearing, we would request a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors. I'm happy to speak to the specifics of this Ordinance Amendment as well. Okay. Are there any questions for Mr. Klein? Mr. Tom. Oops, I'm sorry, I apologize, I'm sorry. Go ahead. I don't have a question. I don't have a question, but I do have a comment. like to see us add to this a sentence after the last sentence there where the half half the distance be reduced to less than half the distance we had another sentence that says the owner of the tower will be responsible for any and all damages to the surrounding properties if it's a residential zone property or a residence on that property we will take that recommendation to the point to the board of supervisors mr. chairman mr. chairman just one matter of procedure for this one it's it was actually initiated by the applicant that's for the condition use permits you're considering later in the agenda so if you are so inclined they're here today and you may allow them to speak back to you if you have any questions or comments please feel free to ask them prior to the public hearing to answer any questions because they are professionals in the field thank you mr. Kern okay anyone else comments questions this is a question for Roger so if it's residential they're responsible for the damage but they can damage this or my goal here is so we don't end up with homeowners having to go to court to get relief because you know I don't know that whatever happened but if a tower if there if the buffer was reduced and a tower fell into a garage or a house that the owner of the tower would be responsible for the damages and that the owner of the house would not have to then go to court to sue the owner of the tower to recover damages to his property if it's a commercial I'm not quite as concerned on that because they probably have to work it out but if it's a little guy and a big guy it's hard to I mean I don't want to force resident residential owners to go to court it wouldn't bother me to put it for all cases but I would really like to see it if it's a resident residence I'm just thinking of the small business owner it would be just as onerous on well could be and I have no problem with saying any property you're right I'm just thinking of the small business owner it would be just as onerous on well could be and I have no problem with saying any property Mr. Chairman I need to offer clarification they would still have to go to court because that's not self-executing it's not like it's visiting the ordinance they automatic that you can automatically say okay you have to pay you'd need a judge to force them to pay thank you my hope would be that they would out of the goodwill and acknowledge that they have that responsibility but you're absolutely correct the general district court it's about ten thousand cases and the district court is going to have to have to pay the cases a year where people don't out of goodwill pay money that they rightfully owe and there's our wise legal counsel for the any other comments okay this is a public hearing anyone who wishes to speak for or against the item certainly welcome to come forward up ask you to spate your name magisterial district and let me check on this to three minutes sir my name is Will Shoemake I'm an attorney with Wood Rogers Van Dievener Black I represent Diamond Communications and we were thank you for the opportunity to speak to this today because it's critically important because if you're going to serve more urban areas you need to be able to have the ability to have setback exceptions or we just can't meet meet the needs and to let you know following me we brought a structural engineer we thought there may be some issues with the building but we're not going to talk about that today. questions the Planning Commission might have because these things are incredibly safe and the redundance they put in there and how they actually collapse on themselves I mean if one of these things were to fail there would be massive destruction in Winchester I don't think you'd be or Frederick you wouldn't be I don't think you'd be worried about the cell tower as much but I do want to say just a couple of things cell towers are incredibly important because because cell coverage is now a utility more than half of all homeowners no longer have a landline I think you probably eighty to ninety percent of the calls that come in on your 911 system come on on on your cell phone and in a case for emergency that's absolutely the case and that is critically important to have adequate cell coverage and and it's being used more and more and so you need to have these these cell towers and they're designed to withstand catastrophic events and we're going to have to get to that in a couple of weeks. Thank you. I think Chris andera are pretty prominent on suggestion of what's going to happen right now we've had a couple of of one last question and one last тому I guess I can go to the third question I would I think we we we've seen this in the Arlington area we've over a decade there's been a MLB that says that for little as far as the number of problem in around 40 miles in a household of now they're on two transmission lines as you'll hear later on these two sites they they need to get off them with with first energy with the new electrical codes and first energies requirements can't upgrade the systems for the new technology and so they need to relocate one of the changes on the same property and ones across the street so I would urge you to grant the the ordinance amendment or recommend approval I'm a former planning commissioner one things I do believe very strongly is you need to look at things on a case-by-case basis and this is not allowing anybody to have a setback exception this is simply allowing you to consider it under the appropriate circumstances and you need these towers to be tall because it's almost like a the way I would describe it if you have a flashlight and you turn the flashlight up it goes out like that that's how cell towers work but I don't know if you've heard of it but I don't know if you've heard of it but I don't know if you've heard of it but I don't know if you've heard of it but I hope you all in your building have all done so that here's what you need to be honest and now that's pretty much that's kind of a disclaimer to you a lot of the issues are being ongoing the thecan be Convict saying a couple of things we could something I agree with with a last a question that really is that the reason it'sNo matter how you work here in our law also traffic always intentions is that ACH dizer no longer do this we started such a process to figure out procedures changed between different couldn't or should've been after intercontinental هوrr you know So год loaded system performance so you're notусаucy Blackene does about that we're working with the green right now to try to get as many teams basically 22 groups of fracking to set up the development system we're doing that pretty often and we have some for cell towers to explain a little bit about it and to answer any questions you may have. I appreciate it, thank you. Well, how's it going? All right, so I'm ready to get grilled. So I'm a professional engineer. I'm licensed in seven states, not actually Virginia, but I work very closely with one that is. I'm licensed in North Carolina. Oh, sorry, that would help, I apologize. Ryan Doolittle, I'm a structural engineer at Kimley Horn. Like I said, I'm licensed in North Carolina, Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Tennessee. And like I said, I work very closely with a structural engineer that is licensed in Virginia. I've been doing telecom for the better part of 12 years. I've been part of tower designs, modification designs, foundation designs, writing these fall zone letters that we're referencing here. And I'm just here to give you guys peace of mind related to fall zones in particular. How can I help? I got a question. It's, um. Hang on, this is a public comment. Sorry. This is a public hearing. Sure. So we'll come back with questions later. Sure, okay. This is an opportunity for the public to speak to us. Okay, so you can just. Yeah, sure, I can. All right, so fall zones. The idea behind them, as we kind of alluded to in the comments earlier, is that the tower's only gonna fall a certain distance away from the center line of the structure during any given wind event. The idea here is that, in a wind event, we design based on specific codes that have specific mean recurrence intervals, which I'll kind of get into a technical term in a minute, but more or less, it just means that there's some percentage that some wind event will occur within a certain timeframe. And we have codes that govern how those pressures are applied to the structure, and then we have codes that govern the capacities of that structure at various points along the tower. So tower designs basically have a kind of a dummy load system that basically say, all right, we got the AT&T in this case, at the top of the tower, maybe a couple future scenarios where carriers are lower on the tower. And in a maximum wind event, there is a weakest point on the structure, whether that is near the top, in the middle, or even at the foundation. And where that critical weak point is kinda governs where the tower is gonna fall from that position. So for instance, if the weakest point of the tower was the anchor rods at the base or the foundation itself, it would tip at the base, it would fall the full, theoretically, the full length of the tower height, or, alternatively, the floor height of the tower height. So that could be a few seconds or a couple of minutes. So that's the idea here. So the idea here is that towers that have 10 or more operating lines Alternatively, you could put a weak spot in the middle of the tower. Say it's a 185-foot tower, which is one of the ones that I'm in this building. A 180-foot tower with a weak point at 100 feet, it's going to fall the 85 foot above that 100-point mark in a radius from that center line. So that's generally the idea. So that is the concept behind fall zones. Both of these towers that are being proposed later in the agenda basically are specifically designed with a fall zone in mind. I admit I did not write these letters. They are designed by a very reputable tower manufacturer, Sabre Industries. And I'm just here to speak to the concepts of fall zones in general and different ways that maybe fall zones can be designed. But that would be my overall fall zone synopsis. Very good. Thank you. Good to guess. We're still in a public hearing. Do you have any? We'll have a seat. Oh, sure. Okay. I'm here to tell you how safe they are. All right. So towers in general are... Hang on just a minute. Does anyone else wish to speak to this topic? Okay. Continue. All right. So in general, towers are not designed to fail. Actually, nothing is designed to fail. We are following international building codes. In your particular case, the Virginia Construction Code, which is built off the International Building Code. Subcodes of that would be stuff like ASCE, which is a very specific structural code regarding wind, seismic, and things of that nature. More specifically, the committee that I'm on is TIA, which is the Tower Industries Association. They have a very specific code that governs the structural design and analysis of telecommunication structures. I am in those committees. There are obviously various subcommittees. I am particularly in the mount-related one, the mounts that basically support the antennas attached to the tower. But I've worked very closely with other engineers that have talked about these fall zone topics. And critical components of structures that would govern that fall zone. So as I mentioned, there are wind events that we design for. So in this case, these are risk category two structures, which are basically standard risk associated with them. And they are basically 700-year wind events. But the odds that that wind event would occur in 50 years is 7%. So theoretically, 7% chance in 50 years that that structure will ever see its maximum wind event. And potentially see that failure occur at the location that the fall zone would describe. But as I mentioned before, we design for very specific wind events that should theoretically not happen within the lifetime of a structure. We are getting to the point in the industry where towers have been around for 50-plus years. But a lot of these structures probably won't be around that long in practical purposes. They'll either be replaced or reinforced at that time. And even still, if we did continue to put load on a structure to the point where it would exceed the design capacity, as engineers, we would analyze that structure and effectively design modifications to support even higher load. But with the context that we can always maintain specific fall zones at certain points on the tower. By designing modifications that reinforce other aspects of the structure, while maintaining that weak hinge point, that would still limit the fall zone. And that would be the concept behind long-term safety. But generally, these things don't fail. Across the country, minimal. I mean, I really do mean minimal amount of towers. They fail in the fall. It is typically not related to wind events as much as it's actually related to potentially maintenance issues, or poorly constructed, or a truck accidentally ran into the base of it. Stuff happens. These are freak accidents. These are not things that we design for. No engineer does. But for the most part, we design to what the codes say within a certain amount of statistical risk that something will happen eventually, just not necessarily anytime soon. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Does anyone else wish to speak to this topic? That will close the public hearing. Now, commissioners. Mr. Triplett? Yes. I think you've set the record for the tallest tower in this area. Right? Right? It is the tallest that we have. Mr. Akins? I withdraw. Okay. I'm sorry. Were you done, Mr. Triplett? I'm sorry. No. I'm the foundation. Okay. Ernest? I think this would be more for staff, and I think we can talk about the two other issues that are coming up just in a minute. But this change would not, this wouldn't reduce the setback distance. This just allows the Board of Supervisors to make a decision if they want to make an exception. Correct? So this doesn't actually change the code. This just allows them to make a different exception. It does not change the setbacks. Correct. It does not change the setbacks required. It only would enable an applicant, such as Diamond Communications, to make that request to the Board of Supervisors for that setback waiver. They would still need to be considered on a case-by-case basis, and failure to get that waiver, they would need to otherwise meet the setback standard. Okay. I just don't want to remove the Board's ability to assess acceptable risk in a project. So that's good. Thank you. Okay. Comments? Mr. Triplett? I'm sorry. The other Charlie. Mr. Porter. The other Charlie. Yeah. Thank you. You don't have to color me a skeptic. I am a civil engineer. I was registered in the state of Virginia. I know a little bit about structure, but I'm not a structural engineer by choice. Okay. By experience. But I do have a motto. If I lived in a house nearby, my motto is, don't get dead. So my question is, and I understand building in weak spots so it fails there, and not only at the base, have there been any studies, have there been any proof that the structure is good? And I mean, I don't know if you've ever been to a building that's not really protected, but I know there's been a lot of construction that's been done, but there's been a lot of construction that's been done that's been done. And I'm wondering, how do you see that? I mean, I think it's a problem. I think it's a problem that's been done for a long time. I think it's a problem that's been done for a long time. I don't know if you've ever been to a building that's been completely destroyed. But I do have a motto, which is, and I understand building in weak spots so it fails there, and not only at the base, have there been any studies, have there been any proof that this theory of building in a fail point to occur works, or doesn't work, or what's the industry, the professions? What's the experience, not just theory, but what's the experience on this working the way you're talking about? So one of, I wouldn't say a subcommittee, but it's basically a partnership with TIA, is another tower industry foundation. It's called TIFF. Basically, they actually do a lot of research on these things, just like most industries. ACI, which is a concrete code, it governs everything related to reinforced concrete, and they do individual testing. That's kind of supported by public funding and things like that. The same thing kind of applies to this TIFF group. To this specifically, they actually do test base plates. They test flanges. They test shafts, and they make sure that they will fail theoretically at the design capacities that are inside the code. So there's any number of research, I mean obviously I don't have them with me, but there's any number of research documents that govern not only what is in TIA, but far beyond that, and every aspect of the international building code, whether that's concrete, steel, aluminum, or anything else. It's worth noting that historically TIA, prior to towers being more prominent, was based off of another secondary code from ASCE, which was like lighting poles. Lighting poles have been used for decades, far before telecom was even made. And those same theories have held true for the last 50, 60, 70 years. So historical performance would say that failure does not actually occur in most of these things because we're building them to design capacities of the standard. So yes, there is testing done, but we're also not seeing failures that would go to say that these failures don't really happen. Okay, describe to me that failure point. How do you design that? In this, like for this particular fault zones that they're trying to achieve. So these are called monopoles. They're basically cylindrical steel structures, hollow on the inside. The idea is that when we run an analysis, we're putting various load points on the structure. As you push on the top of the structure, it's creating different stresses along the length of the pole. Less stress at the top. A little bit higher stress as you go down. But along each of the points on the structure, there's not only a load applied there, but there's a capacity of the structure to not basically buckle over at any given point. So we know from analysis that every foot increment, if you want to get really specific, that there is a point where that stress will be the highest based on the load demand and the load capacity or the structural capacity. So we know there's a weakness at a specific point. And we actually have fall zone letters prepared by Saber, who designed the tower, that basically say. That point is the weakest. So when that wind profile is actually achieved, it should theoretically fail at that point. Okay. And that point is just by analysis? Correct. It could be multiple. You don't build in connectors at various points to fail? These are not connectors. These are specifically the way these work is they kind of slip over one another. They're kind of tapered and they kind of slip one on top of the other. Okay. So they're just the part of the shaft that has the highest utilization. These are not flanges. So they do not have bolts. Some fall zones are governed by those flanges or other features. In this case, it's not a flange. It's just the shaft buckling over. Is there a consideration that at the top of these towers, they seem to grow with more and more and more antennas that are adding to the wind profile? Correct. I mean, that's the thing. We are designing for some theoretical max case. Okay. So we're going to have in this case three carriers attached to this tower at one point. Right now, there will only be one. So we're very low usage because we have very low load on the structure. Eventually, we're going to fill that up with other carriers. I don't know who they'll be. But eventually, we're going to meet that maximum stress based on the design it was intended for. Now, obviously, if we vary from that design, if we put carriers at different locations the way they should be, the structure may behave differently. But the industry standard is to analyze the structure every time there's a change. The building code actually requires it. And the entire industry runs on us. It's on us running these numbers every time it happens. So we have a running record of where the structure's at as we continue to add load. And as I was mentioning earlier, even if we get to a point where we exceed the design capacity, we can reinforce the structure to make it stronger and still control at very specific points that meet these false orders. But if you reinforce those points that would otherwise fail, your fail points, then you're making it more likely to fall for the whole length of the tower. Not necessarily. So like... Not necessarily. Yeah. But you could. So the foundation is at 100 feet. And we've met the design capacity. Now that flange that was at 100% is now at 115. We have to reinforce that. But what if we reinforced it so much that now it's below the next component? Maybe the foundation is at 100%, but the flange is at 80%. Now we have to reinforce the foundation to not be the weakest point anymore. So the point is we would intentionally reinforce everything else. That one weakness stays the weakness. Is there a... Mr. Mark. Is there a code that it would... We might be asking questions that we would get into on the next public hearing. Okay. So... Happy to answer, but... We'll stick with the ordinance for now. Thank you. And get through the ordinance. Are there any other comments, questions on the ordinance? So just to be clear, this ordinance doesn't change anything on the residential, the one bordering the residential. It's still the same setback. Is that right? Any property zoned for residential use? Residential. So the only thing that's being reduced is a residence, and that second portion is to capture the RA district when there's not a primary agriculture use, but it's more of a rural residential character, which would leave it as it is now, which they can't reduce it to more than half of the tower height. Anything else? Mr. Pearson, why were schools not included as being in the exception area? Just curious. I was asked that question earlier today. Yeah, absolutely. It's certainly something the Planning Commission could offer as a recommendation. As I mentioned before, the ordinance amendment was actually initiated by the applicant, and then after we came through the discussion period with the Planning Commission and the Board, it became clear to us that there was concern regarding it being a wide open waiver request. So we thought about what might be the best way to tailor it in. Okay. And while still being able to achieve a reasonable amount of property that could accommodate these types of situations, and schools did not float to the top of our considerations in that respect, but it's certainly something you all could add in. All right. Commissioners, we have an ordinance before us. It will be the Commission's pleasure. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion to approve is presented. We have a motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. We have a second. Is there any further discussion? Mr. Triplett? Triplett, yes. Akins, yes. Kozol, yes. Kern, yes. Thomas, yes. Molden, yes. Markard, yes. Brumbach, yes. Brannan, yes. Chair votes yes, and the motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next item is a public hearing, conditional use permit 623 for Diamond Communications, I-81 Mini Storage LLC. Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Planning Commissioners, yes, I pointed out this is a conditional use permit to construct a 135-foot monopole commercial telecommunication facility. They'll be located at 127 Mercedes Court. It is located in the Stonewall Magisterial District. The property is owned by the City of Stonewall. The property is owned B3 Industrial Transition. The current land use of that property is a self-storage facility. I'm going to turn your attention to the map on your left. There's a zoning that shows that it's B3. Give you a little clearer picture up there off of Mercedes Court and Welltown Road. It's with self-storage, as you point out, Mr. Chairman, anyone who wants self-storage is at. The French County Zoning Ordinance, of course, requires the applicant to provide confirmation of the location of the facility. The applicant's intention and attempt was to make the co-locate on existing telecommunication facility or appropriate co-location structures. The applicant has provided inventory of the existing telecommunication facilities and alleged there are no other telecommunication facilities or viable collection structures exist in the search area or this area. Should this facility be approved, this telecommunications facility would be positioned to provide existing and future land uses in this area. The county with telecommunication needs, Mr. Chairman, in your packet, the applicant for this and the next item did provide that and I'm going to let them more or less speak why they're looking at it, but they did meet that classification of the zoning ordinance. Furthermore, the zoning ordinance does allow telecommunications facilities within its B3 zoning district. The property is located within the area. The urban development area and the sewer water service area is identified in our comprehensive policy plan of Frederick County and is located in the Eastern Frederick County Long Range Land Use Plan. The comprehensive policy plan identifies this area of the county to remain commercial and industrial in nature. I know we're all well aware of it. We've got an industrial park near there, the interstate, and this land and two other properties to the north and south are also Zoned B3 and M1. The applicant, however, is requesting a waiver to reduce the setbacks. Asset. To aunts, your paper incorporates benefits of health and services and current facilities for developedнить. to not have to allow for that to be less, this area or this telecommunications tower is going to go for the conditional use permit, is not surrounded by any residential properties in your area. So the waivers that the applicant is requesting for this telecommunications tower will be two waivers. Now, in your B3 zoning district, you have front setbacks and side setbacks. So the front setback is 35 feet. It actually is 100 foot above the maximum, so we've got equal 135 feet. The side or the south setback is 15 feet plus 100 above it, and this is where you're going to need the waiver. Your side or north setback is 115 feet. It's 15-foot setback above the maximum distance of 100. The rear east is 115. It's 15-foot setback. And it's 100 feet above the max height of that district, and that's the second waiver we've done. So when you, this is an area, a general area where the proposed tower would be. Also for the radius of the fall zone is also located on this illustration. Now, after going through all that gymnastics with the math, this is what you're looking at, at our waiver. Okay. Should this waiver be granted, the falling setbacks would be on the side. The side or south setback would be 18.6 feet. And the rear or east setback, as you look at the property because you're looking off of Welton Road and Mercedes Court, would be 106.3 feet. In turn, the effective setback in accordance with the engineering fall zone would be 18.6 in all directions. Now, like I said, if item 5C is not adopted, and that was what you already voted to send forward to the Board of Supervisors, this application would not be in compliance with the zoning ordinance as written today. As Mr. Klein explained to you about the fall ratio and everything, all your discussions, that's where we're at on this. So furthermore, Mr. Chairman, to conclude, if the Planning Commission should find this application to be appropriate, staff will recommend the following conditions be assigned. Number 1, all Review Agency comments should be complied with at all times. Number 2, the $ deposit should be available for co-location of personal water service providers. Number 3, a minor site plan should be approved by Frederick County. Number 4, the tire should be removed by the applicant or the property within 12 months of abandonment of operation number five an event to tell you communications tower is not erected within 12 months of the approval of this conditional use permit the conditional use permit would be deemed invalid and number three any expansion modification of this use require a new conditional use permit and mr chairman uh following the public hearing staff is seeking a recommendation from the planning commission to be forwarded to the board of supervisors with both the waiver and the conditional use permit and for the record i'm in communications here to answer some of your questions i'm sure you're going to have and staff will try to answer some of the questions also thank you mr chair may i ask you one question on your conditions uh about co-locating i believe the applicant indicated these would have limited co-location opportunities on them is that uh was that considered in the conditions for this cp the way our ordinance was chairman the way our ordinance is written that if a other wireless communications uh company would come in that area of the county they would have to go look at that tower first to make that adjustment so that would answer now they can answer more the question whether they fill it up or not but yes that's when they were our co-location part of our ordinance very good are there any other questions for mr chairman am i right i just really quick a procedural question yes sir if this were to ford with the approval denial uh recommendation would this hit the board of supervisors at the same time on the same night as the okay yes sir it's all planned to be there okay any other questions am i right to my left any questions thank you mr chair mr doolittle we want to continue with you please come forward we enjoy your company i like to talk a lot mr marker carry on oh i apologize okay we'll get to you mr doolittle don't worry well we brought him here for just for clarification are you going to cover both towers in one presentation we've got two separate two separate yeah okay very good okay thank you mr chairman members of the planning commission again my name is still will schumacher and i'm with woods rogers um yeah i uh mark marks did a very good job so i can uh i'll try to speed through some of this but this shows you the layout and where the uh cell tower would be quite frankly this is given at&t they're having to take down the existing tower off the site so when you're looking at their map of coverage you need to be as close as you can to the tower and you need to be as close as you can to the town the old town the old town so this is the town the old town they need to be orbit to it to meet their grid and so this is actually i believe on the same property as where the existing tower would be as i mentioned the at&t is currently on the with first energy's transmission tower given the electrical code and the standards of first energy that they need to be off that and that's why they were seeking to have this tower request as i had mentioned FirstNet provider, they're the lead if there's an emergency or catastrophic event in this area, they're the ones that provide the FirstNet capabilities for first responders to communicate with each other. That arose out of 9-1-1 and the problems that occurred when that tragic event and terrorist attack occurred. These towers would have FirstNet capability. We did a search on it and given what AT&T needed, we needed to be as fairly close as you can in order to meet their grid requirements because they're on towers already and this has to communicate with the other towers. They searched around. The Hilton didn't work because it's only four stories and that's only 55 to 60 feet in range. They then looked at a one mile radius. They looked at the existing towers. T-Mobile is on an Exxon sign but that's less than 100 feet tall. AT&T is currently located on the nearest next tower which is almost a mile away. There's an existing 100 foot monopole that's 1.63 miles away which is way too far out of the ring to be of service. They did a diligent search. And this is where being on the same property made the most sense and the only one that was viable. We looked at all properties. We're not able to find any that met the qualifications. This is going to be 140 feet. It's basically a 135 foot tower with a five foot lightning rod. And it'll be monopole and gray in color to match the backdrop and blend in. We're all kind of familiar with them at this point. I think you've looked at what the tower looks like, the compound. And it's in, like I said, it's in a commercial district. So we're not anywhere near any residences. And this is showing where it would be on the compound. It's the only place that it fits on the site. So this is where they have to be. Again, we would ask that you recommend approval. This would allow us to build the tower. And serve the community. And it's a, as I said, it is now at this point a utility. Everybody's using it. And what people, it's exploding right now, the use of the cell towers. And what happens is the more people that are using it and the types that they're streaming on it, the more it impacts the ability to serve. I mean, you all probably know up in this thing, the difference between a two lane road that somebody. Rarely uses. But if you have a lot of traffic, it gets jammed up. And that's why you can lose calls. It can be slow. And that's not going to change. That's going to grow and grow and grow. And so this allows AT&T to replace an existing tower that needs to be replaced. And to serve this community in the future. So I know you probably have questions for Ryan. But as he had indicated, this is a situation is, if you look at the standards and the were report, the wind events that would have to occur for this thing to even bend. It's like a paper kit. It doesn't blow off. It bends on itself. But the catastrophic event that would require it to fail to begin with would mean that you'd be having, I think you'd be having devastation around. I don't think the cell tower would be the issue for the community. And hopefully that never, ever, ever happens. But I think if something like that did happen. It's important. That we have the ability to have the cell coverage for people to call out. So I appreciate it. And I'll be glad to answer any questions on this case. Any questions for Mr. Schumacher? Thank you. One question. Hold on. Sure. Mr. Doolittle is probably the structural expert. Mr. Doolittle is the structural expert for the tower. Is he also the structural expert for how the foundation would fail? Well, we'd have a structural. I mean, we can talk to that. I mean, we have the, you know, Sabar and we'd have structural engineers for that. I don't know if Mr. Doolittle is the specific engineer for it. We wanted to have someone speak generally as to the concept. And since he was on the committee, we thought he was an appropriate person. Fair enough. Thank you. Does anyone else want to speak? No. Okay. So I'll ask the switch to speak to this conditional use permit. I will. Okay. Hang on a minute. Hold on. Hold on. I'm sorry. I'll wait. Hang on. Any questions for the applicant or staff? Now, Mr. Doolittle, you're back on. Mr. Doolittle, I'm totally supportive of the need as you describe it. And the way things are going with the usage of cell towers and everything. Just for the record. Tell me, am I correct in how I read this one project? It's 135 feet tall. It's going to fall within an 18-foot radius. Yes. That's the idea. So let's round off numbers. If it was 140 feet tall and it would fall in a 20-foot radius, it would fall in a 20-foot radius. That means that there's seven sections that are 20 feet tall. So all of those sections would need to break and fall into that 20-foot radius. I think a better way to visualize that would be, say it was your example, a 140-foot tall pole and that fall zone point is at 120 feet, meaning 20 feet would fall off. So once that 20 feet falls off, let's just say, the rest of the load on the remainder of the structure has decreased. Because what was on the top is basically no longer there. So the likelihood that the rest of the structure fails in 20-foot increments or even at all is much less likely because there's much less load on the structure. That would be the simple way to put it. So that point of weakness would be designed in at that 20-foot from the top. Correct. And once that fails, it's kind of a different ballgame. There may be a new weakest point. Once the sail is taken away. Yeah. And then there'd be a new weakest point. Now I can't speak to these particular structures and what they're called. I can't speak to these particular structures and where that would be. But the idea is that something else would then fail next, assuming that it ever met capacity. But again, there's so much less load, it's not going to fail until more load is even added. But that's not going to happen at that point. Okay. I think that's all the questions I have. That was easy enough. Thank you. Yeah. Anyone else to my left? Mr. Thomas? Okay. So you explained it's not going to be a hinge on these towers for this project. Yeah. So I'm going to ask you a question. So you said that the the the the the the the the the the the the there's the the the the the anything like that and I think one more here I think and I might I might be wrong when I looked at this I thought the tower was being built on an area where there was a fair slope and that on the natural grade typically in this type of a tower what kind of a foundation do you use to use a matte foundation do you use piles it'll vary I believe this particular one had two potential designs and which design they I'm going with maybe based on cost or other reasons but one's a drilled shaft so just a big cylinder that goes deep into the ground into your point a shallow foundation that may be 30 feet by 30 feet and it's maybe six feet deep into the ground but to your point about the slope if you're worried about like the tower tipping over that fall zone and launching failure yeah I mean as the thing with the the geotech engineer and the foundation engineer knows the slopes are near and is counting for that factor of safety in the original design of the foundation so again you're going to have to be careful with that because it's going to be a lot of work and those are over designed because we want that critical point to be up high those foundations probably aren't going anywhere mr. marker yeah going back to the point of failure being up near the top I would have has this been considered the fact that the wind would be high enough to activate that failure would also be high enough to send that block down the street I think that's always a good theory question the answers no they're so heavy that I'd argue that the way is going to bring it right down to the ground before it's being blown away maybe something extreme to that point like a tornado or something but almost everything is getting destroyed in a tornado that's what we're not what we designed for we are designing to the code prescribed to win speeds and that's how it's designed and are you still designing with a safety factor of three not quite but very similarly had to describe that in a very broad sense there are safety factors on two sides of the equation when we apply the loads we basically increase the factor it's roughly 1.67 today for the applied load but then on the capacity side so we have a theoretical capacity of that cross section and we actually reduce it by 0.9 or so for moment capacity which is what this particular failure would be so it'd be the 1.7 ish over 0.9 which is roughly 1.9 factors of safety in this case and historically yes it has been three but it's gone down over time with better research and better materials and reliability of manufacturing and yada yada okay thank you any other questions for Mr. Doolittle yes well I don't think it's for Mr. Doolittle it's for probably the applicant I was just curious either the applicant or the staff if did we have any communication with the people to the east I believe that's a I think it's common metaphor I would assume to have coming in and out or anything like that under the when I look at the oh sorry did we actually call for the public hearing we're still interacting with the applicant I will okay we were asking questions of the applicant so we will go to a public hearing yes sir thank you so when I when I look at this proposal three things jump out at me and two or two questions for you and ones for staff so I'll start with for you in the event of a a catastrophic not talking about wind I know that you keep talking about wind but then in the very beginning we were talking about the other thing you were saying oh well you know if something goofy happens like somebody were to vandalize it or somebody run into a you know fire something and they in the entire tower were to fall which you don't plan for you can't plan for that in design but I have to think about that worst-case scenario right I'm looking at that if somebody vandalizes something happens to this thing and you know there's kind of acceptable risk in my mind and you know the the folks owning the commercial structures around it there's there's kind of some acceptable risk in there but what screams out at me is the high power lines that if this were to if the entire 140 were to go down if somebody were to vandalize and go down is it gonna Nick those high power lines that are just to the north and if someone were to do it same thing to the east is it gonna land on the i-81 those those are my two big things if it's clear of both of those you know and again I understand that you don't we're not talking about a wind event we're talking about it we don't we don't have the image of which is fine i have the drawings here you could obviously go back to slide so roughly one hundred and six feet to the property line to the east which is still probably estimating here bear with me another 60 feet to the highway so I'm kind of using as a ballpark to the power lines your at least another 140 to 150 feet away and that's just to the actual vertical plane of those lines and they're up in the air so like that mark It's still going to be way below them. Now, I can't, like, again, it'd have to be some freak accident for them to come in contact, but I just don't see that happening in this particular case. They're far enough away offset to the south. Okay. If there were the freak accident, those would be two pretty catastrophic things for it to take out a high-power line or land on 81, or if someone were to want that to happen. I would argue an alien would have to pull it out of the ground and drag it. Okay. Thank you. And then my third point that my third kind of question on here is, so the property, it says, I'm looking at the map here, just to the south is owned by the hospitality entity, so you're right on the property line. Would this restrict that property owner if this 135, 140-foot tower were to go up? Would it restrict what they could do with their property in the future? Would they not be able to build something right up to the property line? They would just have to comply with the existing. Zoning ordinance setbacks. Nothing about this approval would in any way impact their rights to develop their property. Would they have to stay 100 and? They wouldn't have to set back off of this tower. They would just have to set back the same way the ordinance requires them to set back today. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Right. Do you have one more, Mr. Toms? No, thanks. Okay. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Anyone who wishes to speak for or against this matter can come forward. State your name. Magisterial district, please limit your comments to three minutes. Does anyone wish to speak? Seeing none, I'll close the public hearing. Mr. Schumacher, I've got a question for you, sir. And you may or may not know, is First Energy asking all carriers to get off of their towers? Because there are others in the area as well. Or is Diamond a special case for some reason? Yeah. Diamond is familiar and works with First Energy. So, Mr. Vanesky can answer that. Hello. My name is Tom Vanesky. I work for Diamond Communications. Diamond Communications actually has the master lease rights to First Energy towers. We actually lease First Energy sites through New Jersey, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West Virginia. We control all attachments on those poles. We also build poles within their substations. So, to your earlier point about being, building, new towers next to power lines, we do that all the time. So, in this particular case, with these particular poles, First Energy is upgrading their lines. And with those upgraded lines, the AT&T can no longer upgrade their equipment or service their equipment on those lines. So, we as Diamond would prefer that they stay on the lines. It's a much better economic agreement for us rather than building a new pole. But they're forcing us off. They also are very well aware of where we are going. So, they had no concerns with us. We're very happy with the fact that we're now placing it on this property and we have let them know exactly where we're moving to. They're our partner in this process. Are they asking you to remove your equipment from other towers in Frederick County? Not. Yes, on different parts of the line, I don't have the exact addresses, but yes, that is going to be occurring. We're also seeing this particularly in New Jersey right now. There's a, they're completely changing a line to a 500 kV line and all the carriers have moved to the power lines. And so, we are in the process right now of doing exactly what we're doing here, trying to find alternate locations for those carriers to come off the power lines. Power lines were usually the first choice to locate on very early in the process. They were existing structures. They were quick. They were easy. But over time, the capacity simply isn't there and the ability to use and maintain them is firstly nonexistent with the power lines. And are we going to get 5G service in our community as a result of this? You will get improved communication service throughout. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vanesky. Any questions for Mr. Vanesky? Yes. I have one question. I just hope that this does not affect me, First Energy, the revenue that they'll be losing from them. Your stock portfolio will get... I'm retarded. Yep. Thank you. So, I don't want to lose. If that's going to cause a loss in my check I get, I can't support it. I can't support it. I can't support this stuff. No, I'm just having some fun. Understood. And by the way, while you're there, one question and it's a very simple one. Yes. I'm surprised there wasn't a remark, collapsible, from your engineer. These tires, in my understanding, since I did retire from first, were described to me when I was working, they were designed to collapse rather than fall. Mr. Funchal. Funchal. Correct. And that's what we... We keep saying fall, but it's a straw. That will eliminate a lot of the questions on the distance away from the base. Yeah. Thank you, but don't... It won't affect me any. Good to hear. Thank you, Mr. Vanesky. Thank you, sir. Okay. Planning Commission, will it be your desire? I'll motion for approval. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. I'll motion the second. Is there any further discussion? I would just like to say that I appreciate all the questions being answered. I'm okay with it, considering the fact that those two big things of the interstate and the high power lines are not in danger should there be a full catastrophic failure of this. So I'm in support of it, and I definitely appreciate that this is in a commercial zone, because if we don't approve this. this it ends up in a rural area and then you end up with it being in people's backyards and that's much worse situation so thank you thank you this brand yes run back yes markered yes olden yes Thomas yes current Jess yes trippin yes yes and emotion carries next item is a public hearing for a conditional use permit 723 diamond communications on RLC management Thank You mr. chair and Thank You mr. chairman planning Commissioners again this is a conditional use permit for a 185 foot monopole commercial telecommunication facility they'll be located at 178 Rivendell Court in Stonewall Magisterial District zoning of this property where this proposed use would be his own b2 general business and it's currently and uses also sell storage properties in the area and the zoning of this property is also a zone b2 general business and it's currently and uses also sell storage facility I could direct your attention to the map to your left there's a zoning I think you're familiar if you've been up in the Rivendell area is where the or our Martins is yeah and it's the cell storage right behind directly behind Martins off of 522 and again just for the record the Frederick County zoning ordinance that does require an applicant to provide provide a confirmation that an attempt was made to co-locate on additional telecommunication facilities and locate possible co-location structures within that area the applicant is provided inventory existing structures and telecommunication facilities and existed excuse me there are no other telecommunication telecommunication facilities or co-location structure exists in this area and again should this facility be approved in this area and the county I would be positioned for the existing and future land uses in the area with the telecommunication needs and again your b2 zoning district which chairman does allow with a conditional use permit commercial telecommunication facilities now this this property also is located within our urban development area and the sewer water service area is identified by the comprehensive policy plan of Frederick County it's located in Eastern Frederick County a long-range land-use plan the comprehensive policy plan identifies the area kind of remain commercial industrial in nature now I want to add there are some legacy if you will residential areas that are further toward Winchester it would be further south of this of this development but the areas right now is predominantly commercial and industrial but I just want to make that for the record there is some older neighborhoods there the applicant also on this conditional use permit is requesting a waiver for the required setbacks is set forth in section 165 dash 204 type 19 of the ordinance and of course again just for record the current orders requires it no less than one half of this is a high the wireless facility or support structure to be allowed as we talked before we have a proposed ordinance amendment to approve to go forward and again it's the same setback distance should not produce less than one half that this is the high the wireless facility or our facility support structure if adjoining properties are zone residential principal uses residential on these adjoining properties again this is a another telecommunication facility it's right in the middle would be to zoning district out there our Rivendell court is and so there's like I said it's not surrounded by any any residential at all now there are two waivers again going with this conditional use permit for this telecommunications tire and number one the front or side setback is 35 foot to setback and the other way around is to have a residential zone which is a the east setback is 150 or it is no setback it's 150 above the max height now in the B to zoning district you just have front setbacks off of main right away as a roads you do not have side or rear setbacks the side setback or West and then the front or north setback is 200 is a 50 foot setback plus 150 on the max height you would need waiver now again as we did this mathematics I'll get to which it will wait we vote on but as the applicant put on the previous application in this application shows release area is in the fall ratio that you were looking at so should the waivers be granted it would be the North front because there's two fronts on this property route 37 there's a front and the road leading into this development is where this tires going to be is also right away or egress or ingress would be south setback would be 79 feet and 9 inches and the front north would be 77 2 inches feet and 2 inches in effect the setback in accordance with the engineered fall zone will be a total 77 was shown on the applicants when they had sent it in their lease area and whether the entire fall now item 5 C is not adopted again by which we just approved that two times ago on a board of supervisors this applicant or application excuse me would not be in compliance with the Frederick County zoning ordinance so that's to keep that in mind and mr. chairman should the Planning Commission find this used to be appropriate staff recommend the following conditions be assigned this conditional use permit for telecommunications facility number one or do a C comment should be complied with at all times number two the tire should be available for co-location of personal wireless service providers number three a minor site plan shall be provided or should be approved by Frederick County number four the tire shall be removed by the applicant or property owner within 12 months of abandonment of operation number five an event the telecommunication tire is not erected within 12 months of the approval of the conditional use permit the conditional use permit would be deemed invalid and number six any expansion or modification of this use will require a new conditional use permit staff is following the public hearings chairman staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission before to the Board of Supervisors on both the waiver and the conditional use permit for the record time of communications here and I'll answer any questions that you may have on this conditional use permit any questions for mr. chair yeah let me ask some staff a question the last the previous approval we voted on we did not specifically state and I assume the motion was the intent of the motion was to recommend approval of the applicant and also the two waivers requested the CUP and the two waivers I feel confident we can interpret the Commission's intent that they were supportive of the waivers as well as the application itself especially if we clearly say now we intended it there you go it makes it even more clear sir we're back to okay mr. Schumacher I'm back so again thank you for letting me speak to this we really appreciate the time you've devoted to these matters tonight again I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry again this is this is a facility that they're currently on the transmission tower along apple pie Ridge Road and for the reasons that you've heard they have to get off and so they're looking for a relocation so this is a site that works it's essentially across the interchange and this is showing you where it would be located on the property itself as I've told you why the AT&T is the the lead carrier on this so it would have first-net capability serving the community this is a site to tell you a little bit about what's at stake as it relates to this this is the current coverage obviously green is good you get into the pink that's very bad coverage and this is where you are with the current AT&T tower if you just lost the AT&T tower on the transmission lines you can see what a dramatic impacts it has on the ability to provide coverage and this is what happens if you if you just replaced it at the current height so if we just took the hundred twenty six feet and and moved it over this shows you that you would be maintaining the coverage but one reason why we're coming in a higher tower as I mentioned to you before the higher the tower the greater the coverage the higher the coverage the higher the coverage the higher the coverage it also gives you co-location when he talks about co-location we intend to have multiple carriers and that's one reason why you do the height the last tower could accommodate since we are on the transmission line two or three carriers at this height we could have several carriers on it and in addition it dramatically given the higher height part of it we have to go that high because of the elevation of the property of the land itself but at that height we can dramatically not only maintain the coverage but increase the coverage which we think is a great benefit this is showing the search ring that we that we looked at it's inside the half mile of the existing first energy tower there wasn't any existing tower within there or objects of comparable height this is showing the ring of one mile it's one reason why you see the dramatic loss if you lose that tower and there wasn't anything within one mile radius we tried to look at law raw land talk to various owners we could not get any bite a bite and we were not able to find raw land so this is the best alternative that we have this is showing you that we can do co-location so we can accommodate AT&T is the lead carrier but we can accommodate other carriers to provide coverage to the to the area and again this is showing you where we would be on the site itself so I we're in a commercial district so we're not going to have any impact on any any residences and we'd ask for your favorable treatment on this as well thank you for your time thank you this is a public hearing anybody who wishes to speak for against this conditional use permit is welcome to do so I ask you come forward state your name magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes please does anyone wish to speak seeing none I'll close the public hearing this one's a little taller than the last one about 50 feet any comments discussions from commissioners Mr. Thomas I was gonna say I think we've probably addressed the communication towers as much as we need to we've got a lot of learned a lot about it so I would move that we recommend approval of the conditional use permit 07-23 including the two waiver requests for diamond communication we have a motion is there a second and we have a second any further discussion seeing none well I would just like to comment again back on my previous comment I was okay with the other one just looking at the map of this if there was a total failure it's going to go down it's going to take out a power line and it's going to land smack dab in the middle of 37 if the whole thing goes down again it's not made for that but if someone if there was a vandalism or something like that it could potentially go right down take out power lines and land on the 37 so that is a concern to me I obviously you've looked at the site plan and tried to figure out some other place to put it but I'm pretty sure with my measurements 185 feet Skuna would be bad and in following all the general近 damaged slept nothing ahead and me knowing this is super case 126 feet did you have a slide that would show the 180 for the full 185 yes I did okay all right are you able to show that again yes I am appreciate it so here is where we are if we just did the 126 feet which then that's for AT&T that obviously then would have a dramatic impact on co-locations and then this is what happens if you go to 185 feet okay thank you and I just on we're on we're not on the same location of the transmission I'm looking at this site plan on the property that we are is there a particular line you're concerned about across the interstate yeah thank you mr. chair any other comments discussions we're ready to vote mr. triplet triplet yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and the motion carries these three items will go to the board of supervisors on March the 13th thank you next item up is for information discussion mr. Pearson or CIP thank you mr. chairman this is the 2024-2029 capital improvement plan as you all are well aware our CIP is a document that consists of the major capital expenditures for the county in the next five-year period it's intended to be tied directly to our comprehensive plan and support our comprehensive plan and they do serve these projects serve as inputs in the capital impact model they're not directly translated into the model but they serve to inform the model and in turn the results that we talk about with you all when we consider the future of our capital impact model and we will talk about that in a little bit. the plan is an appropriate cash proffer amount might be so it is a long-range plan but you'll notice that we review it annually based on changing circumstances and opportunities this year was different than previous years based on both direction we heard from the Planning Commission and the board that they wanted a more realistic plan so part of the way we achieved that was departments were given direction to ensure that the projects were feasible and fundable within the time frame that they were shown on the plan and we aren't showing anything beyond the five-year horizon as of right now that result in a substantially smaller plan of different scope and size in the projects as well and then it's not included in the draft yet but I know County Administration and Finance are trying to conduct a high-level evaluation of whether the plan can be implemented in the five-year period without violating the board's debt management policy so that may make its way into the plan prior to adoption by the board. As always here's just a summary of the projects I think to note the scale and the reduction in the size of the plan and I know in general government last year we had I think 53 projects so there's 17 parks projects many school projects and when you narrow it down to just those next five years you drop off a lot of the longer-term projects and really focus in on what we think is an implementable capital plan and that we're working towards so comparing it to last year's not doesn't make a lot of sense because it's so much different in scale normally I would provide you kind of how the different priorities were switched around but it's really just a whole new plan in that respect I noted that since your packet went out we had to make a change to the transportation projects as well as some of the other projects I'm going to review here in just a minute that came as a recommendation from John Bishop we had only included funded projects but we also need to include five projects that we've submitted grant applications for so that they score a higher level of success. Thank you. I think the transportation project was better than the FDOT smart scale program so that category was changed from funded transportation projects to funded and applied for and five projects got added to that so it's a it was worse last year visibly I can assure you that it still doesn't look great on a PowerPoint slide but it was much harder to read last year I won't go through the individual projects I'm just going to know what's changed since your packet went out County administration directed us that there wouldn't be any station renovations likely in the next year. So I think that's a really great point and I think the other thing that I would like to see is that the city would be able to update their budget for the next fiscal year for fire and rescue that figure is moved out to the next year that they would like to see the sheriff's items represented one fiscal year out since they're not currently represented in the budget request from the Sheriff's Office and the ensuing fiscal year and then asked us to amend the Public Safety Radio Network to represent how much money of that project has already been expended it was previously represented on here as a twenty one million dollar project. So the first two projects that we are going to be doing are the transportation projects which you all should be familiar with three pedestrian projects that are submitted for grant application and then the two revenue sharing projects Warrior Drive and the Route 11 south widening project. Airport CIP is always included as well it's worth noting that they pretty much fund their own capital improvements and don't request things from the county but it helps them to be represented in the county's plan. And then the accompanying maps which it may went through some minor modifications none of which are particularly noteworthy. Mr. Chairman following a public hearing well first I'm happy to answer any questions you have on this but following a public hearing we are seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the board for your 2024-2029 CIP. That concludes my presentation. Thank you. I had down this was information discussion is this supposed to be a public hearing? It's not supposed to be a public hearing no we are still seeking a recommendation. Okay sir you had me going there. Yeah I would like to comment that I think the presentation is very intuitive easy to read and thank you I don't even have to use my bifocals. Well done. Thank you. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? I have one. Ms. Brannon. When we had a joint session before we talked about the police vehicles being actually budgeted not part of the CIP did that discussion go anywhere? That's why they're no longer represented in there. They aren't they don't qualify for what we consider to be capital in this because they aren't they were never requesting additional police vehicles up beyond their existing fleet they were replacing existing police vehicles. I thought I wanted to make sure. Thomas. I have a comment and it's not I mean it's nothing to do with the planning department I think Parks and Rec have and I talked to them last year when we had the work session I think they are being very short-sighted they do not have anything planned for our young community and our elderly community from the standpoint of water safety. I think Frederick County and Winchester City having a population of close to 100,000 people should have a indoor aquatic center where young kids and can learn how to swim and be water safe. There are drownings every year for kids around here for kids that go from here on vacation to the beach because we don't have a pool here for them to learn on learn in. Yes they can swim outside in the summer for a month and a half when it's warm enough to be able to swim but for the community the size we have we should have an indoor aquatic center that kids can learn to swim. People can swim year-round. We could have recreational areas for our senior citizens and other people that are not able to run and do other more physically demanding sports or more impacting sports. So I think I'm very disappointed that Parks and Rec has taken the avenue of they don't particularly care for swimming pools and they're not going to have an indoor aquatic center. I do understand that aquatic centers are expensive but the size community we have I think it's tough. I think it's time that we realize that we really need one because similar sized communities around the whole state of Virginia have. We don't. Was that not removed because there's a private organization that is going to build that said there was removed because of that right? It was on there and it was removed? Yes and that has been a long time that there's been a private organization going to do it and do you see it being built? You know it would be good if Frederick County would work in conjunction. In conjunction with a private organization. Thank you. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? I'm fine. Thank you. Okay. We need a consensus of support. Is that what you're after Mr. Pearson? Recommendation on the draft plan for approval or? We need a recommendation for approval of the draft CIP. Is there a motion? I'll motion. We have a motion for Mr. Kerns. Is there a second? Second. Second for Ms. Brumback. Any further discussion? Mr. Triplett you look ready to go. Triplett aye. Yes. Whatever you want. Akins yes. Kozo yes. Kerns yes. Thomas yes. Molden yes. Markert yes. Brumback yes. Brannon aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Okay. Mr. Pearson anything else for us under other? Mr. Chairman. I would note that. The one logistics park lot two site plan has been approved. Which is the warehouse and distribution component of that larger project. We're currently reviewing new plans for a free delay distribution center in the Stonewall district. For the car credit nation which you all saw the rezoning for the expansion of that the auto dealership. For a manufacturing facility conversion in the Stonewall industrial park and for Winchester townhomes. And the. Redbud district which is a 43 lot subdivision. Beyond that we've finalized our annual report will be forwarding that to you all. Here soon and happy to answer any questions you all might have on any planning items. Any questions for Mr. Pearson. Seeing none is there a motion for adjournment. So moved. All in favor. Aye. Stand adjourned. Thank you. Mr.積 University Cover Story свое crew which is on the��데지 신 프로 dt directed by Dr. Kuomi Novoa I caasamese at. Make sure the dropped and it happened and is integrate into one or söme the
