Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-02-19
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=268
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you penny of real estate tax is worth what six one point six I think we're using one point eight one point eight that was added July twenty twenty fourth and it just came out three weeks ago so it's from well straight population right oh okay one point eight yes thank you one please nice I don't want much to it just blood one point eight on yeah that's true yeah Yes something right about right anyway Community days parties lose every journey I think everyone together ready that all shots is So if we're still here at 7 we have to leave please take everything with you. We'll go to the purple room We'll do that anyway for a short closed session meeting Even if it's early I'd recommend taking everything so that housekeeping can get the room reconfigured for the Planning Commission meeting And then a question on our agenda today, no I see something okay It was left blank for us. I think the County Administrator wanted to take today. Is that right? New or adjusted information for us new and adjusted information and yes pretty much covers it Say we handed out to you a copy of the presentation a brief presentation Also handed you out a draft copy of what we call we call them the County Administrator adjustments Those are still being worked on that gives you numbers as of Today, you know looking at items to remove or to adjust We also handed out a school capital asset plan school categories by code Updated calendar so you have those items also Lost up There's no saying about that, but I won't go into that Yes I First Yes I heard you a guy email it you all out of coffee, I called a Ward update there were some questions when I sent you instead of giving you printouts on it because it was mostly to do with spreadsheets or background data so you can look at it at your leisure if you want to. It's not necessary. I thought I'd show you a brief overview of it. Slide one is an explanation. I also listed on there a table in case you're interested in the CPI. That's just data from the Department of Labor. I also put on there the matrix of how we calculated the PPI, which is the population plus inflation calculation. I just found out the last three years of population, if you see I have it estimated at 97, and I can't read that from here. We do actually have the updated number for Weldon Cooper, and it's actually about 1,000 more than that. It's 98,977, so these will be adjusted. That's one of the fun parts about budgeting is week after week, the numbers tend to change. It keeps you on your toes. But this just gives you data background in case you're interested in how any of this information was derived. Thank you. Could I ask on your CPI, is it for inflation? Yes. So is that all goods? Is that the general federal measure of inflation? I use the general CPI nationwide. So that's goods and services. So that includes labor. Yes. So we're labor-centric as a county, or at least some departments are. Then ours would differ from the CPI a little bit. Yeah. And that's the problem with the CPI. No matter which industry you look at, there's always a problem. Yeah. And that's the problem with the CPI. There's always going to be issues with it. People can give you numerous arguments about issues with the CPI. So it's just a guideline, a model, so you can take a look at a picture. And it's, there are issues with it trying to make it reflective of what's truly the nature of your inflation with a government. But at least it's something you can use. Thank you. And the population, obviously, Weldon Cooper, I estimated the last three years, but I will update it to put in the current year from Weldon Cooper. What did you say the current year was, Mike? 1977. Thank you. You're welcome. And when you look at this, this just shows you the charts behind these spreadsheets you looked at. I know there was one little error on this one chart. It's been corrected. So if you want to look at the how these charts were derived, this has the actual spreadsheets for you. And this number, there was an adjustment made in this. This shows you the actual capital fund. It's been updated. So that's the actual capital fund. And the actual capital fund is the actual capital fund. Okay. Thank you. And I just wanted to show you that, and that was emailed to you. Now, I'm going to try and find that presentation. I can't read it from here. It's open to the public. It'll be the top one. I want to go over some quick numbers. A lot of this is a review, not review, but going over some old information. Just to give you an idea of where your revenues come from. These are your primary revenues for the county. And as we all know, your two top revenue generators are your personal property and your real property tax. This has not been, I don't have the estimates for 2026, but the purpose of this is to show you the magnitude of each tax. Your third highest and obviously your sales tax. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And ask questions anytime you feel like asking. This is the real property tax revenue. You've seen this is adjusted. The 2026 in the red column is the 2026, what your revenue would be projected at 42.4 cents. And the dark gray column, that's your revenue projected at 51 cents, which is the current rate. 42.4 is the revenue neutral rate. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. You were just going to say, this is just a picture of looking at the property plus inflation adjusted. This is the line if you started in 2013 as your base year. And you just adjust it at each year based on population increase inflation, just where it would be. And this orange is budgeted 2025. This red one, once again, is your projection at 42.4 cents. point four and the gray one is your projection at a 51 cents and at first if you look at this at first you would look at this chart and go well this is easy it's a right at inflation it's right at your revenue neutral rate but there are some things you have to consider in the um that you have to look at is one cpi is not a perfect measure and two have you been adding services all along or any other unfunded mandates or such that have been forced upon the government i can show you i think it's clearly obvious your biggest drivers with the county over this period of time you look at what's driving your expenses to go up and the big one far and none is your fire department this is just your labor if you look at if you would have grown your fire department just based on population and inflation you have 96 firefighters but because you've been building a fire department because you don't have as many volunteers you know with one's budget this year it goes up to 193 so you've added if you add all eight this year 97 firefighters over that time you look at their salary if you estimate it salary and cost at 90 000 a year that's an additional 8.7 million dollars in costs you've added to new services with your fire department this does not include you know any equipment or such you buy to go along with that i pulled out a couple of other items to show you what can be driving your cost up that exceeds your inflation this is the sheriff's department at inflation if you go just by population he would be at 157 150 employees but he's at 168.5 his primary difference is sros if you take out the sheriff's sros they are pretty much level on how many officers they have per thousand over many years so that's an additional 900 000 is the sros which at this point i don't believe is an unfunded mandate but it's something the board has decided to do but i also understand there's legislation to require which would not affect the county because the county already does that and the other item i think the big driver you see is is the growth in the department of social services there are unfunded mandates there and just the need for services has grown astronomically and the number of sros is not a problem the only problem is that the district has to make sure that the number of sros is not a problem in the state of Virginia sorry and that the sros is not a problem in the state of Virginia i'm not mistaken we are frederick county is number two in the state of virginia for children with mental issues so there's a lot of issues they're dealing with it that's the statistic i believe i heard from the department of social services yes for the sheriff for the sros with that phone number of sros have been mandated by now i don't and how many would they mandate? I don't know, but my guess is because with the addition what they have, we pretty much have an SRO and off in every school, so I don't think it would affect the county. So is that what they're mandating, one per school? I believe that's what it is, but I'm not certain, but I will verify that. As a matter of fact, I wouldn't be surprised if it's actually even a little less than that. A lot of times they'll require you to alternate officers between elementary schools and such, but I'll have our lobbies verify that. I suspect a lot of our public would appreciate our focus on SROs, but for those who don't, if it's mandated anyway, it's also accurate to say that some portion of that we would have had no choice but to hire. We just perhaps did it a little in advance. Absolutely, and you have a total now, I believe it's 22, maybe 23 SROs, which 20 some odd years ago you didn't have any. Are there any mandates on firefighting? Actually, believe it or not, I don't think there are any mandates on firefighting. I don't think there are any mandates on firefighting. I don't think there are any mandates on firefighting. I don't believe so. I've looked at that. We've been researching. I've been going through the state statutes, and I do not believe you're even required to provide fire service at all. Fire service is something that you do because you choose to do as a service, whereas sheriff's departments are required. I'm going to have our attorney, I can see your face, but I've been searching for the legislation or statutes which says you're required to have it, and I have not found it yet. It doesn't mean it doesn't exist. Well, if my face was thinking about our mission statement, and our comprehensive plan, which talks about the things that we are responsible for, that's public safety and education. And I don't want to confuse it, too, between what you should do and what's a mandate by the state. Understood. That's why my face was there. Yes. No, no, I'm not saying you shouldn't do it. It's just not mandated by the state statute. Is there any mandate in pre-social services? Some of it is and some of it isn't. And some of it is not really a mandate. It's if you don't do this, you don't get this much of the state funding. And I will tell you one thing I'd really like to do, and I'm going to go into that, that would be really nice to look at, is one, is to try and get a determination of everything we do, what's an unfunded mandate, what is it that's based on, you know, how many funds you get, and to take an analysis and do a deep look at that. So there's mandates, which you have to do, and then maybe incentive would be the term, incentivized projects. Correct. Yes. I remember you had asked about the mandates, and it would be nice to get a look at all of those just to know for sure what you have to do and what you don't have to do and what you should do. Certainly schools have incentivized projects. Yes. I think the SRO's program started out as one of those incentivized where they would do some state grant dollars, and now it looks like they might be leaning in a different direction to have a stick as opposed to a carrot. And just not to get political, but the state and the federal government, states throughout this country and the federal government have become brilliant. They realized how unsavory, unfunded mandates are. So they said, we've got a better idea. Let's give people seed money for three years. Everybody falls in love with the program, and they'll never get rid of it. And that works even better in unfunded mandates. And guess what? You have a new program, and you can't complain it's a mandate. And that has worked well for states and the federal government. As you can see here for DSS, that's $1.4 million. So that's significant when you start looking at these numbers. And the other part, and this doesn't go into the operating costs, but this was discussed at the last meeting. This is the transfer to the schools each year. The yellow line is what was budgeted for the transfer each year. And the blue line is what that transfer would have been based on the population and inflation. And once again, they've been probably mandated to do certain services, and that services, but that was something the school looks at when they take a look at their, and they look at the cost. So that's one area we've been looking at. But the other one is, I know we've been talking about this a lot, which is that the cost is not necessarily in the budget. But that shows you another area that's driving your costs. Before I go to this, I will tell you another area. We've started looking at it. Patrick and I, Patrick's our IT acting director at the time. We've been looking at the, what we mentioned last time, was the subscription costs. I don't remember the number, but I believe I stated it was $2.6 million. in the past. Part of it would have been under capital, perhaps, because you're buying the software. Part of it would have been under maintenance. It was all over the place. So determining what you're spending in the past is difficult, but I will assure you the software companies have a heck of a racket going. They're doing this to everybody in government and business, and you really don't have a lot of options. And when you start looking at these yearly numbers, we started pulling out the spreadsheets today, you'll be shocked at some of the numbers of what you pay. I know the Microsoft license is $300,000-some, and then you start getting vision software, software here, software there. So we are going to put together a group internally, and we're going to take a look and do a thorough look at all the softwares we have and the costs. Are we adding any new softwares within any of these subscriptions that we've looked at within the budgets? Yes, there is a new software we wanted to add, and we're going to actually... I recommend after talking with Patrick, it's coming later, we were going to add the Microsoft license in. You're familiar with that. I know we discussed it last year. The reason we're going to pull that out of the budget, because we've looked at it, we feel fairly comfortable that our current license that we have covers us, so we may not need, we don't think we need that other license, and that's $309,000. We'll research it further. It's one of those cases, if we're right, we don't have to go get the other software. If we're wrong, then we do have to do it, so you have a lot of options. I think we're going to have to look at that. Thank you. Mr. Chair, and I hate to go back to schools, but I wonder, would it be easy to pull that data to 2007 or so? Because I know in 08-09, looking at this chart here, I know in 08-09 there was a significant reduction across the board just due to the recession there with SOQs and all of those type of things. I wonder if that would help. I don't know how much time that would take. It's not hard to do once, you know, because I just contact the FCPS for the numbers, then you just drop them, so I can take a look back. That one, right? Yes, ma'am. And once again, I'm going to tell you, it's one thing I learned with fact-studying, and then way back when in the olden days when I studied economics, fact-mute used in abacus and all that. The one rule is, when you're using models to study, you know every model is wrong. You have assumptions, you know, you were expected, you know, you're not going to be expected. We used to have the famous Latin word, charitas parentis, all other things remain the same. You know none of that's true. These are just pictures and guides to help you in your decision making. They do not provide answers. So I'm of the opinion, you know, there's a lot of people who believe government in general, including local government, should not be growing faster than inflation plus population. So you look at charts like this, which indicate we are, there's unfunded mandates in there, but there's also in this case, there's schools that have been opened during this time frame. So those are decisions we make that are wedges we created ourselves, right? I mean, when we need to open a new school, we need a new principal and we need other staff. So it's really hard to calculate the overhead, if you will, or the man, the growth and funding beyond. But I think it'd be important to, so that we could, if we could do it and figure out all the mandates and other wedges or increases in services and what those cost, then we could justify to the public. Yeah. And I don't deal with it across the board. Yeah. I don't deal with the school's information. I'm not as knowledgeable about it, but that's why I went back to this was, but the counties, the nice thing about the county is your big expenditure is what's driving it. It's pretty obvious when you look at the fire. And the SROs and DSS, and then the other one is the subscription costs. Those are your big drivers. Mr. Sherman, just to add to your comment, in 2000, give or take, if you use that as a baseline, we had primarily involuntary fire. So if you take population plus inflation, there's certain things that were not done that we're now doing. That's one, transportation is one on the road system. So there's new add ons. Because of the new road system, there's a lot of new road systems. And the reason we're doing that is because of the population that was not in the baseline. So therefore, the numbers could be probably higher than that number alone. Make sense to you? It does. I was thinking department by department. So transportation would just be, if you will, an added department and an added area that we're investing in. So I was going to go and this is a slide I showed you last time. If you use your book, and I stated in the briefcase, but in your folder, in the very beginning, I think it's called budget summary. It's the blue pages, it's probably one of the most useful tools in there shows you the changes from one year to the next, where items have been increased or decreased. When you use that book, when you come down to the last page, you have this information here. And what I did was to calculate a number to start out with expenses. I took the 279, subtracted out all these items here to get your basic operating costs. So when you subtract all those numbers out, so for the county operating costs for fiscal year 26, becomes to 123,904,000. I reduced it by 1.3 million because in your operating budget, there's an item called Abrams Creek. I took that out because there's a corresponding revenue in your revenue. So it shouldn't have It should have been expenses, but it's covered because you have a matching revenue in your revenues. So that brought me down to an adjusted, well, take those, subtract out what your operating expenses were the previous year, which is this $256,000 minus all these numbers, and that'll get you $118 million. So when you subtract that out, when you look at your increase in operating costs from 25 to 26, it was $3.7 million. And the percentage you look at there was a 3.17% increase. When we went into the budget this year, we strongly emphasized our department has not to exceed 3% of the budgeting, and obviously some did better than others, and in some cases they had no choice, because if you remember, there's a large $480,000. $6,000 expense in there for CAS, which we believe is mandated by the state. But that was your increase in the operating from this year to last year. And then another way to look at it is this is the operating expense for fiscal year 26. This is the operating expense for fiscal year 25. In 26, I subtracted out Abrams Creek. I added in the new positions. And then I also added in the COLA and the contingency, which is out of that blue area. This $3.1 million, $300,000 contingency, $2.8 million is the COLA, which, as we stated earlier, was 4% from the employees, which gives you $127 million. In 25, I added in the new positions for that year using that same blue chart and added in the number for COLA and contingency for that year, which is actually understated, which will make this number probably higher than it should be. It comes up to $122 million. So when you add those in, your increase in budget for this year before capital is 3.8%. Now, we believe this is overstated because there were some carryovers that reduced this number here. So the pure COLA number, you said that was 2.8? The pure COLA number, yeah, $2,800,000, correct. Then there's another $400,000 for unexpected. It's contingency, the other $300,000. The idea of this was to give you an idea of what percentage increases you were looking at in the budget. Which number did you say carryover? In this $2.18 million here where it says COLA contingency, it actually started when we did last year's budget prior, but I think, and Cheryl can explain this better than I can, but I think we had some carryovers that enabled us to reduce it. So what happened is that when we did the comparison, the blue and the white chart, the year before, it would say salary increases because we just had it all lumped down in the COLA where the 3.1 is. So we took those numbers and we put it in departments so that you could see a better comparison. So that $2.1 million he has there, that's probably closer, it should be closer to like $4. So when we had about $4 million budgeted, we started out with a 3.1, but then as we made changes, like we reduced the COLA, we reduced our... We reduced our health insurance. Those items were not... They just all got dumped in a contingency. So we really had like $800,000 in the contingency instead of the $300,000. So if you would change that 2.1 number to a higher number, actually what it started with, that 3.8 number would be a lot lower. Did I totally just confuse everybody? And the main thing to take away from that is... It's usually good. You're talking about 24 rollovers. It's usually 25. It wasn't a roll... I'm not sure. I think maybe rollover was a wrong word. And I think if... There was a point in the budget last year where there were certain people on the board that asked us to spread those raises out through all the departments. So it came out of that line item and went into the actual budget, which reduced it in the blue. But for simplicity's sake, just following these numbers, it gives you a ballpark. We know that for operating and COLA new positions, we're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. We know the number's less than 3.8%. And the $7 million for transportation, is that factored into these numbers? No, I'm getting ready to go into that. The next slide. And just for a newbie here on the COLA, would there be any impact on the state budget if they decide to revert back to the biennium or if they do pass a new budget, is there any impact on that 3.1 from state dollars? No. Generally not for us. It has usually a much more significant impact on the schools when you look at that. Okay. And kind of feeding off of that, what about BRS? Do we know if there's going to be any, like we need to make up any difference? Our BRS is good. It's for two years, so it stays constant. Okay, good. We haven't gotten our insurance renewal, so we'll probably have to make changes to that because we don't have anything budgeted in there. Thank you. I'm kind of holding on to that. I'm going to go back to the question. We're kind of holding our breath on that one. And crossing our fingers. This is difficult to reach. You may need to read it off your chart because this is going to go into your different scenarios. Once again, I'm going to go back to that blue sheet that you have, which comes down here. Here's your operating expenses, that $123 million, which comes directly from your blue sheet. Added in the school operating transfer, $118 million. The school debt transfer, the $19 million, which is right off the blue sheet. I've added in $7 million transportation, $1.9 million for the debt service. And here's the capital based on the, not finished, but after the county administrator adjustments, $7.3 million. And we're working on bringing that down. And then the COLA in there on the blue sheet, which is $3.1 million. Which brings you to $281 million. Added into that, your new positions. Remember, these numbers are, this is all draft. They're still in flux. Which brings your cost to $282 million. And then we started working on how do we reduce that number. So, and these are not recommendations. These are numbers we plugged in there, you know, just to see what was going on. And then we started to see what would happen. So we reduced the school contribution by $4 million. We moved the $7 million transportation to the capital fund. And we moved the capital to the capital fund. That brings this number down to $264 million. We also looked at other items. When we feel comfortable, there's $300,000 we're going through for other miscellaneous expenses to reduce it. And as we discussed earlier, there's the Microsoft license software. That's the $309,000. So doing this, we got the total expenses down to $263,963,000. Question? Please. Looking at these adjusted expenses, it looks like the new positions don't match what are in the book. Which that's 1.7 versus. 1.6. So have you already reduced some of those positions? Yes. This is based on what I call the, I hand you the sheet, county administrator adjustments. So this should tie to that sheet. Yes. Thank you. You're welcome. So when you move capital to capital for a 7.3, is this ongoing expected capital expenses each year? Or what's, when you say moving capital, what capital is being moved? This is what, you know, I generally call ordinary capital. It's both capital. This is ordinary capital. This includes sheriff cars. This includes trucks. It includes. Okay. That's, that's. Okay. That's. You didn't ask a question on that. And then on the school, the school distribution reduction before, you're taking that for from the 118? Correct. Okay. And I said that's a plug on our part. That's not a recommendation or anything. I understand that. You're just plugging numbers in there. So I do not think we're recommending that. What about the school capital? School capital, I'll go to when we get to a later slide. I'm going through this trying to go methodically because I know the tricky part is tying all this to your loose leaf folders. But it's really good to tie these and see what these numbers come from. Those folders have all this information. One other quick question. Assume for a moment we had zero capital, zero. Take the transportation digger for $7 million. How would you fund that? If we had a. If you had zero money in your general fund. You're right, they have $34 million or something like that. Yeah. If that number were zero, the transfers here, how would they be funded? You'd have to just make a policy decision how to fund them. So you have to either increase revenue or not fund them. Is that correct? Or take expenses from elsewhere. But it will be all policy. Okay. Okay. Thank you. And I've tried to as much as possible from my perspective make this as much as possible. From my perspective make this a mathematic exercise with the exception of cutting expenses. I've had several discussions with department heads. I've been going back and forth. I know you met me this morning. I had with the IT director. I was out in the hallway. And that's where we came up with $309,000. But so we're working on it on a daily basis. May I ask another question? And going back to new positions on fire and rescue where we listed the eight firefighters. The $821,000 that you've allocated for that, does that include a full year? Okay. Because in speaking with Chief Mischak, it sounded like he'd be two years or I mean two months at least into the new fiscal year before he would have his firefighters hired. So that would equate to some savings there as well, right? Absolutely. And that's overstated. It's nice to see that. It's nice to start out with it overstated. So at least you see what it will cost you every year once it gets going. It won't cost you that much the first year. So those will be ones that you're going to add getting us to fine tuning this a bit more, right? Yeah, absolutely. And that's what we're looking for now is all those places we can fine tune. And I think we've talked about being a part of that $300,000 that he's got miscellaneous expenses there. Do you know what I'm saying? Because he knows that there's savings in those hirings. So you think that $300,000 is from the fire because that was about the number I think he talked about. And I was just curious if that was... We're hoping to do better than that. We're still looking. Very well. Thank you. And so I think everybody have a good idea of these numbers where they're coming from. This gives you an idea. And this is very simple. This is the rollback rate or the revenue neutral rate. This is the middle rate. And this is the current rate, 51 cents. That's why we picked those numbers. This 256 is actually what's your revenue per the resolution for 2025. When you saw that, it included a capital rollover gap last year. So we subtracted out to get 50. We subtracted out to get your current year revenues budgeted. The 5.1 million you see there, the proposed revenue increases, and I sure will correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe that's the increases when you add sales tax, your mills and lodging, and machinery and tools. And this is a conservative number, but that's all those items added together. What are those items again? It would be all the other revenues, but mills and lodging, sales tax. Okay. Thank you. Do we have aximum? Did you see it? We had, you know, we had Junction Project. That's four, you know, and number one, zero. So, as of the March tech season, we had zero in Rising Tech. We added an additional $600,000 in revenues based on the fact we believe that the revenues projections we made are very conservative. So we feel, I think Cheryl feels comfortably that $600,000 we can add to revenues. Which brings you to this $256,000. Then you come down to the expenses. All these expenses are going to come right from this sheet here. So they'll be the same across. So if you go with the revenue neutral with the expenses and all these as they are, it's 7.6 negative. If you go to the 46.8, you're at a positive of 312. And on this one, you're to the plus of 8.2 million. I will tell you how I've used this. I've started out, so I haven't tried to adjust things all the way. Certain points, they were higher and lower. They keep changing every time we make adjustments. So none of these numbers have been target numbers. That just gives you a ballpark of where we are now when you look at the different revenues and expenses. This is the slide. Yes. Revenue neutral of 42.4 cents. We were talking about 41 cents previously. Yeah, that was just the original estimate. Yeah, that was incorrect. The proper adjustment was 42. And then additional revenue. Is that just because we're being conservative in our other estimates? It's not a particular source? Yes. So that is a projection of revenue into the next fiscal year. Yes. So it doesn't factor in any changes we imagine might be coming from the federal government changes? Plus or minus. Right. So grants are frozen, which I've already seen affect at least one part of the county. Mandates may go down. One could imagine if the Department of Education comes away, does that change what mandates now exist on the localities after they pass through the states? But if there is a recession or a reduction in the government workforce, then either one of those things could have big impacts. So we're going to have to look at the federal government's policy and the federal government's policy. And then we're going to have to look at the federal government's policy and the federal government's policy. Yeah. So we try to, you know, when we're trying to make all the variables looking at, we try to keep it as simple as possible. Because I guess in the future it is tough, especially when things are changing rapidly. Okay. And this is the one chart I think we started out with on that other thing. I spreadsheet I sent you. Once again, this is your capital fund balance. Beginning of the year, 36.4 million. And you take this year. Remember on those charts earlier, we moved the capital expenses, 7.3 million there. We moved the transfer to transportation, 7 million there. The school capital, as I remember you brought up the last meeting, you asked if it was 14 million, which is actually what they're requesting. I've talked to George. He knows. They fully realize they won't get the full 14 million. They have it prioritized. And a year ago it was $19 million. So it has come down some. And the idea is this. And these are just my numbers, not a recommendation, is you did 4 million a year, 4 million a year, 4 million a year. You're going to bring that number down even though they're adding more. I'm not saying it's the right number. But for me mathematically it was a nice easy number just to plug in this model just to give you an idea. The rollover fund balance, it's 9 million. Previous year, you remember, right, I believe it was like 17 million. We think with the revenues not coming in as high as we expected. It won't be that high this year. I feel comfortable putting the 9 million, just a conservative number. And, you know, finance people generally tend to be conservative, ones that keep their jobs. On your school capital, this year it's 14 million. These are numbers. Next year I think it's like 11 million. Then it goes to 5 or 6 or something like that. If they have a need, I would say, you know, I think it's going to be a good idea. I think it's going to be a good idea. I think it's going to be a good idea. I think it's going to be a good idea. I think it's going to be a good idea. I think it's going to be a good idea. I think it's going to be a good idea. Next, if you have a need, I would say to Hummer, tell us what the need is for this year. I mean, they expect HVAC systems to collapse or not work. I mean, we need to know that. So I'm not looking to say I'm asking for X to hope to get Y. I'd rather have it, this is what we have. This HVAC system is 95 years old. We don't expect it to run for another year. And that's why it's needed to replace it. If you go through that, I think this number might have to go up. As I said, these aren't recommendations. I'm just making a general comment. I'm just making a general comment. Brandon, when you were chair, you've gone through things. I mean, I'm assuming that you had a good idea. This thing is, it can be pushed another year, but no, it can't. So that's what I'm trying to get for. It's fair, and I don't know. I haven't looked through this document, but I know that we prioritize. What we may be asked, it was prioritized as one being the most pressing, to your point. And I remember during my tenure, there was a HVAC system in Middletown that was similar to what you're talking about. If we don't fix it, students likely may experience it. So I don't know. My assumption would be in that prioritization that they did that same thing. I'm saying this one is most likely to fail or the highest need. And I would think not only number one, but, I mean, one, two, and three out of ten, you pick what you really need this year. Because I think that we as a board want to be able to say, fine, we need to hit what is truly needed. And once we put down next year, at least we know. It's coming. But that's just my thought process for that. Thank you. I've got a question for you. Yes. Does the scenario that's taken into account any future transfers between operating and capital fund balance? When you look at DES, the expenses and budgetary summary include those transfers. Let me make sure of that. Yes, because when you come down to these adjusted expenses, I've subtracted out school contribution. But here's the transportation of the capital fund and this transfer. So it does include those two items. Two or three items. Well, the reduced school contribution was not a capital fund. But it's. These two right there. The school capital was not included at all in the beginning, so I didn't have to subtract it out. So this 263 does contemplate removing 7 million and 7.3 million. One second. Oh. I guess my question is how do we replenish those? How are we replenishing those yearly so we're not drawing that capital fund balance down? Yeah. So you're saying the deposit savings that's going to come from 30 million in FY26 to 4.5 million in 30? So really, the two ways, you have the Rollover per year. And, you know, as I state, I believe 9 million is a conservative estimate and also is by managing how much you take time. 17. 17 last year. Yes. This past year. So as I had to go back and remember, too. Last year with the schools. And. they were awarded additional funding from the state. And one of the things I believe Dr. Hummer said, that if they were to receive that additional funding, then we could reduce our contribution and or allocate some of that to these capital expenses. Is that what he said the other night? He did say it, and I believe what they did is they applied that funding to their maintenance capital projects. They applied that to reduce that number, and that's why I think it's down at the $14 million. But I'll confirm that, Dr. Hummer. Yes, they made that pledge at the beginning of the year, and they did follow through. And I don't know when he'll have any estimates from the state. I know it's still a moving up. So it would be helpful if they have any updates on that front that they could share with us as well. The state's very good about scheduling those updates for a month or two after you pass your budget. We know that. But they're consistent. So on the rollovers, the $9 million per year for the next five years, is that conservative compared to what the last five actual events have been? It is conservative, and once again, you always worry what happens with the economy and your projects. So. You know, being financed, being conservative is just a, like I say, it's a survival tool. I agree. Pretty conservative. Finance directors who always operate revenues in an undirected way don't last more than two or three years, I think. So the $9 million is pretty much what we rolled over prior to COVID. If you take the COVID dollars out and all that, we averaged around nine. Yeah, a big bump from COVID. Well, it was COVID dollars, and it was trying to catch up with the budget because we kept all of our revenues constant when budgeted, and they didn't come in constant, so you had these windfalls. So was the $17 million a single-year outlier? It was the last two years, yes. It was certainly above what it was prior to that. What was it, two years ago? I think it was 15. 15. You know, we kind of, we put it, we put a freeze on our spending. We didn't budget any additional revenue because we were scared. We even went and got a line of credit because we were worried about shortages. And then the spending really didn't stop during COVID, and we collected money on sales tax like we've never collected before, and meals tax, and then the interest rate went up, and we didn't budget for that. We budgeted a million and collected 3.6. So all those were factors that weren't normal. So with our rollover, the new norm was 16 million, let's say, the average of the last two years, which is total speculation, and it assumes no big economic changes, then the capital fund would be in very good shape in that case, right? It would be drawing down. If it would continue at six, it would be very good, yeah. It would be very good, yeah. I have a question. When will we begin to see the fourth high school as far as, I mean, there are, they're in their beginning stages. So what does that look like? I believe you said 28, 29. I think the debt on that, I just handled Josh that form. It was two years the debt started to kick in, so maybe two and a half, two and a half, three. The operating is going to come a little later because we're going to start paying on those construction costs. So you're probably about two years out before you start to see it from the debt side, and maybe three on the operating. They matter their debt service as they go through the project. It doesn't all get released at one point. Okay. What's that going to look like as far as funding? I mean, you clearly don't want to socket to everybody at the last minute and have huge increases. So how do you prepare for that? Well, one thing we can do is send them out. We may have sent them out, but send you out the debt tables where you can take a look at what those numbers will be in later years. I will tell you, it's going to have a significant impact. When you go back to this chart here, when you add that debt in here, it will have a significant impact because the school debt transfer, as you see here, is 19 million. If memory serves, it will at a couple of points get close to 30 million in those years. So that's a, that you're adding another $11 million. If I remember, that was 2030 or in that timeframe. So it will have an impact. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Not to be presumptuous, but I think I might be the youngest person in the room. So that might be my question as well, is you're adding additional school debt, potentially a little over 14 million, assuming the nine. I know that there's some question about what that number will be, but assuming the nine, an additional 14 million plus, in essence, general operating, general capital expenses, transportation has been a priority of the board so at that 30 31 time frame I mean that is potentially another 20 to 30 million dollars of expense at that same period am I looking at and I know I just want to make sure I'm looking at that the right way I think you're looking at correctly when you get in those years the debt you're gonna be adding that an extra 11 million and you see where you are today and now obviously what you don't know what's at 9 million gonna be right understand what's gonna happen for all those other variables another big variable it's just hinted at in the National Capital Region you've all probably seen articles about housing values dropping precipitously so if that's a real thing I mean I think it's just too you can all see why it might be occurring but it's it's such a short term I would hold judgment that's a real thing and that's going to reduce that's going to affect our markets and maybe reduce that driver of people moving out here for affordable cost of living so it can have huge impacts what if our own assessments go down we had ourselves in such a bubble with personal property and vehicles after COVID we offered a rebate one year offset that was an unfair bubble on taxation that might be you know another bubble we could find yourself in so we do reassessments every two years so if next year everybody's home values have dropped by a hundred grand in this county the public's gonna want I think they won't want to be taxed again on an assessment they can no longer achieve right in the sales price so I'm just throwing it out there is another worrisome scenario you can still talk about our revenue neutral rate next year but when you do assessment at property drop values drop significantly then it becomes in effect your revenue neutral is when you have to raise it you have to raise the right that becomes very neutral in that case right so that's something to think ahead the variables I I know that we will hopefully be running personal property next week so we'll have more concrete numbers still a new target could you speak up just a little bit louder I'm sorry we're hoping to run personal property to get those numbers pulled next week and when we get those we'll have more concrete numbers because right now we're running on what our predictions are when was the last year the reassessments went down we're going to have to wait until next year to see if we can get those numbers back we're going to have to wait until next year to see if we can get those numbers back in the last ten years we when you do your assessments in the past ten years fifteen years did a regress at any time during the 20 years not to my knowledge real estate correct you're asking I've been talking about them maybe dropping and I'm going in the last 25 years did they ever drop Cheryl said 2008 and I remember where I was that was the nationwide Solange said 2008 and I remember where I was that was the nationwide fine slump so it dropped everywhere we had a couple of those cycles in my team I remember correctly reason that capital fund was utilized for transportation as other captains early during that Cove in time frame to try to float give us five times I guess I think actually at one point in time and I know the portal correct very well on They decided to try and set aside money so they could get a lot of capital projects done. Because I think the thought was a lot of capital wasn't being taken care of. So their goal was to set aside money for capital projects. And I wasn't here, but that's my understanding. And those of you who were here can correct me. Well, there was a day when we only used what was left over. This money that's getting rolled over into this capital fund, we did not have that luxury of having that money. And so that rollover balance, whatever it was, a million or two million, we ended up buying sheriff cards and what have you as we were coming out of the Great Recession. So we've come a very long way. And if I may interject, and this is like not a state of the city, but if you look at this, there are all sorts of challenges. You do have that debt with the school coming up. You know, there's a lot of change going on all around us. You don't know what's going to happen. Property values, what's going to change with government funding and such. But as it stands as of today, from a balance sheet standpoint, the county's in very good shape. From a balance sheet standpoint right now, if you look at it, there are a lot of other counties in Virginia that are in a lot worse shape. There's a lot of localities that are definitely functioning way in the right direction. You can tell by our tax rate. Exactly. And we're very blessed and fortunate that we've been able to maintain that. I will state with a balance sheet member is a measurement of one day and one moment in time. But what's scary is when your balance sheet looks real bad and then you have all those crazy variables and you have all those debts coming, then you're really in trouble. I think we've been blessed to have wonderful staff that's been on top of all of this and rolled with whatever the economic situation was. And we're very careful not to spend any more money in time. So thank you. Thank you, Ms. I just want to say thank you to everyone who has contributed to this great recession. And, you know, there was a lot of work done. It doesn't just happen. And I can say this shows you that if you look at that, and this is long before my time, but when you look at the expenses compared to expenses increasing by population inflation, through all those years, how they're almost going hand in hand. Yet during that same timeframe, you're increasing your fire department, your SROs, and your DSS. That shows you that staff over that period of time is, and the board making policy decisions has been very conservative and done a good job. And I think. Adding the fire people, it was done very incrementally. I mean, we couldn't do it all in one. So we systematically added what we needed to make up the difference from the volunteers. So there was a lot of strategy to some of the things that were done. And I think we're going to continue to do it in the future. Thank you. Thank you. So I'm going to ask this question, and I'm going to ask this question to the President. This is all very helpful information to me. Thank you for the summary and the update. If there are more questions. Yeah. I just want to throw out comments to all of us. One is to be able to issue transportation. Right now we have $7 million going into transportation. The $7 million is dealing with roads that we have currently. This Board made a commitment a few years ago to consider an Interstate Route 37, which now is a Parkway 37 on the eastern side. It's going to cost money to build that. Whether you build it from Stonewall and Redbone down in Opecan, there's money that has to be set aside to do that. It's going to take roads, it's going to take bridges. We may have developers that help work with us, but we're going to have to put in something here for revenue sharing. We're going to have to put something in here for smart scale. And so I'm going to make the comment to all of you that that number ought to increase if you're going to do it. If you're going to, you know, I, last Wednesday I showed you a screen and you've seen John Bishop's stuff. If we don't do that, you're still going to have problems internally. We do do that in reliefs, but either way we're going to have to spend money to deal with the transportation issue. I'm going to throw on the table one is, you know, the transportation issue. Okay. So, you know, the transportation issue, the money ought to be $7 million or an additional $7 million, and that's an arbitrary amount, but something higher than $7 million, and at least the board ought to consider how do we fund $37 million going forward. It's not going to be a one-year, two-year project. If we can put in money for that, then we can have the money to put there to build, say, to VDOT, here's our 20% down, give us 80%, et cetera. So that's one important factor. The other important factor here is this is a capital fund. It's not an operational fund. At some point in time, that goes dry. That's why I think that we collectively need to figure out how to either raise revenue or cut expenses. I mean, I've laid out, you know, some thoughts on cutting expenses and raising revenue. One is impact fees, and that's not going to fly this year, but I mean, that's a way to try to have the additional cost borne by those that are coming in. The second one was for the 1% sales tax, which would be voted on by the residents. It wasn't our vote. It was the board's. It was going to be let the population decide whether they wanted that. That raises $20 million. You can do meals tax. So there's certain things that we can put on the table, but I don't think it's fair to a chairman, you know, four years from now or eight years from now that doesn't have a $36 million capital fund to use as a such fund to balance the budget. So I think collectively, we as a board ought to address those two issues. Having said that, if you guys have comments, pro or con, but I just want to put that on the table. I think the first one is that $30 million is important. It's a parkway. We need to put money for it. And I'm uncomfortable about continuing to go back into a capital fund for operational expenses. We need to build into our operational budget those ongoing, as Mike says, ordinary capital expenses that occur, sheriff's cards each year. So having said that, any of you guys have any thoughts or comments on how to address it? Oh, one other. Mike, you and I had a conversation some time ago. You said you know a lot more about HVAC than I do. You said, well, here's a way to save. Well, here's a way to save like another $200,000 or $300,000. I think that if you guys have good ways that may not cover the whole cost, I think that you want to just lay those on the table too because I don't have the expertise for you to do. But if you can say, fine, here's what it is, et cetera, then that's something that collectively we can look at the table to try to do something. So if you guys have expertise and ways to go and make additional savings, put them down on paper. Let us all have a chance to look at them to help everybody. Same thing for you, Brandon, Delaine. I mean, we're all here together to try to solve a problem. But I don't want to be here 10 years from now, as Brandon says, and they say, fine, your taxes will increase by $20 million. And that's just not going to be fair to those people. So having said that, if you guys have any comments or thoughts, I'll be glad to listen. Any thoughts on that? Just a quick question. Mr. Walhofer, would you be able to check? Would you be able to check with the superintendent on the school regarding this capital asset plan? And if these are in priority order, can you do this now? I know for a fact they are. I actually discussed that with him. I can ask him to actually even go further. I think some of the questions are, are any of these things that if you don't do it, there's impending doom? So I can say, these are priority. These have to be done, or they have a major problem that year, which may be a separate category from the school. Okay. So what are the priorities? Well, for instance, I'm looking at HVAC for Bass Hoover of $3 million. And above that, there's playground equipment. So I'm just wondering what are the priorities. I just wanted to make sure they are in numerical order. Thank you. You're welcome. Any other thoughts? I appreciate the number you've given us, Mike. But I'm just wondering if you could talk about the cost. I mean, it's a lot. I mean, I think it's a lot. I mean, it's a lot. It's a lot. I do like the idea of, you know, I mean, I come from a world where you have capital and operational, and they are separated, and they don't touch each other. So the smart thing is to move things that should be capital into capital, and draw from that, and work on that, you know, transportation stuff. And then you really look at your operational, and then you determine really what is that tax rate you need for operational expense. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's very nice. I think that's a great point. Well, Mike, if there's any other comments, we'll see you in a little bit. Thank you. If there's no other comments ... I just wanted to share, if you look at our locality and some of the bordering localities, we are one of the lowest in the state. You know for 23 and 24, we were at 51 cents. Warren County was at 53 cents. You've got Clark County, they were at 60 cents. And if you go further on out, you have to look at the status of that area, and the number on out, they were much higher and we were at 51 cents. It's another reason why we have an influx of people coming because they like our area. It's beautiful. It's growing, but our tax rates are reasonable. But with that, you have individuals that want some of these amenities and that's decisions that you all have to make. So we, just for, I don't see too much of the public here. Certainly Jack's here from the Star, so he counts. He can't join us in closed session. So once we adjourn this meeting, I'm not adjourning it yet. We've got more comments. Just to let them know, once we adjourn, we will not come back here. We will not conduct any other public business. The only thing we're going to do is closed session. The only thing the public could see is, I guess, they could witness us, certify that we didn't, as we always do, that we stuck to what we promised we would in closed session. But there would be nothing else for the public to see once we adjourn. Mr. Paul? I think I'd pass down these calendars you've seen, the little picture calendars here, because The target was, at the next workshop, was to discuss the tax rate. As you know, if you decide you want to increase the tax rate more than 1% above the tax revenue from the previous year, you would have to advertise that and have a public hearing. So at the next meeting, if you were to make that decision, which is on this schedule, then there would be an ad placed on March 4th, and you would actually have your public hearing on that rate. Now, as we've stated many times on that rate, that would be the maximum rate you could charge. You can always lower it if you advertise at a different rate. But the target date on this calendar is for the next workshop. Which is next week. Next week, yes, Wednesday. You also said, I think you misspoke, that we're going to raise the tax rate, but you mean raise the tax bills to people, right? Excuse me, yes. So if we're going to raise the rate above the 42, we have to decide that by next week. Or at least if we want to advertise the ability to raise it above 42. If you want to have it at a higher than the revenue neutral, you have to. If it's going to increase more than 101%, which is not significant, you would need to advertise that amount. You can subsequently lower that amount if you so desire, but you cannot raise it. Okay. So then I'm ready if everyone else is. We'll need to make a motion to go into closed session. Just give me 50 seconds. I'm just going to go back. Transportation is important. You know, respond to my comments on setting aside money for 37. If you think that we're not, we shouldn't do it, then that's fine too. But I think that we, we've done two years of study on this. So I think if you would say yes, we'll commit money to doing it, or no, we wouldn't do it. But I think if you would say yes, we'll commit money to doing it, or no, we wouldn't do it. And if we don't, then just recognize that we're going to have the next 25 years, other areas are going to become crowded as the screens I showed up last week and John Bishop showed. I mean, we have to go into closed session. You're running out of time. I'd like to see a courtesy of response. If you don't, if I'm an outlier, and the rest of you think you don't need to do it, that's fine too. I just want to put that on the table for a minute of discussion. I'll just say I've heard over the last couple of years from certainly some taxpayers in the county who don't want to see the growth. They don't want to see 37 build. And there's a, secondly, there's the issue that 37, it appears, can never connect to I-81 on the north end. EDOT's very unlikely to let us build another intersection with the 81 up there. And we've done these studies, transportation studies, including the eastern one, which imagines the county without an interstate 31. And this entire project is happen is looking for a problem of 37. Looking for alternative ways to solve traffic problems other than, if I understand it correctly, that was the goal of the study. Now they still kept a shadow of 37 on their report. But they almost removed it. I mean, some of the drafts had it removed. This last year, if you all remember, in transportation reports, too, was at some points they had given up on 37 in Stonewall going down, even if that were completed, it still takes care of some of the traffic flow that occurs elsewhere. So I mean, it's a policy discussion. I'm not saying it's without traffic merit, but I'm not sure all up 37 Beltway is even a possibility any longer. And my last just comment to those people that have talked to you is that I don't want it. My comment to them would be, in 20 years when you have crowding rule in Cincinnati, crowding on Stevens City, etc., this was designed to alleviate some of that. That's what the purpose was to show. So you may not want to want it, but then you are going to have to stop for something else. So having said that, I've made my comments. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Board of Supervisors and Frederick County enter into a closed session pursuant to Virginia Code 2.2-3711A1 for discussion and consideration of prospective candidates for employment as the county attorney. We have a motion. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. We have a motion to second. Any discussion? All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We're in the closed session. Finance Committee, thank you for coming. Thank you. I wish you all the best. Appreciate it. We wouldn't let it happen. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. All in favor stampedeal. Aye. Aye. Aye. dressing everyone please. We're all for your work. Mr. Chairman, I was in the dislike and disapproving position but could you please
