Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2023-08-16
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=195
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I call to order the July 19, 2023 Frederick County Planning Commission. Can we take a moment of silence, please? Thank you. Thank you. Planning Commissioners, just a reminder, please make sure you turn on your mics before you speak and then turn them back off since we're limited on the amount of mics that can be on. Next thing up is the adoption of the agenda. Staff has informed us that CUP 06236A and 07236B for Diamond Communications are not able to be heard at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. All right. All those in favor? Aye. All right. We're good on that. Committee reports, of which I believe, I've got Frederick Water, I wanna make sure, CPPC, we don't have anything, we don't have anything with DRC and historical, do you? Okay, Frederick Water met and the board authorized Chairman Oates to execute an agreement with Madison Village pertaining to payments, availability for their project phase three, it includes five multi-family buildings and the funding is a three and a half million dollar project, they also authorized, the board also authorized Chairman Oates to execute an agreement with Carmoose which will facilitate the construction of long-term maintenance and shared cost of water, raw water pump station and pipeline that will convey raw water from pits one and two to the plant site. For the month of July, rainfall was two and a half inches and their customer base was 18,206, so that's Frederick Water. So we have Winchester City, good evening sir, thank you for coming. Thank you. So you got a report for us? So we met yesterday, we reviewed a application for zone 1.67 acres of land on York Avenue from medium density residential to medium density residential with a plan use development overlay, a PUD overlay, and the planning commission voted in favor of that application and that was the only thing on our agenda. Wonderful, excellent. Well thank you for coming out this evening. Thank you. Okay, we don't, Ms. Lockridge is down enjoying vacation so she's not here tonight, so we'll move on. At this, the next thing up is citizens comments and this is for, which is open for any items not before the commission, for public hearing or on the agenda. If, please state your name and magisterial district and keep your comments to three minutes or less. Do we have anybody that wants to speak? Okay, I will close the citizen comments. Now we're gonna move on to public hearings. So we're gonna jump down to 6C. Mr. Bishop, that would be you. We're moving quickly through this one. I apologize, you caught me confirming my colleague over there. Thank you Mr. Chairman and members of the commission. Tonight you have a rezoning before you public hearing for Global Headquarters LLC. Many of you may be more familiar with it as the former headquarters of the Bowman Trucking Company. This is a request to rezone plus or minus 1.86 acres from M2 Industrial General to B2 General Business and also to take .29 acres that is already zoned B2 and add proffers to it. This property is located just east of the intersection of Route 277 and Double Church Road, right next to the Dollar Tree on the south side of 277 there. And if you could let me go to the graphic here, there's a picture of it and that's the Dollar Tree right there. And just off the screen, there's a picture of it. The screen here is your intersection of Double Church Road and Route 277. That's the terminus of the recent Route 277 work for those interested in that. This is designated in your comprehensive plan, the Southern Frederick Area Plan to be specific as an urban center. It's called the Sharando Center inside the text of that plan. And there you have your current zone and the current zone. We actually don't think these lines out of RGIS are totally accurate here. We do, the next door parcel is actually not split zoned as it appears to show here, while this parcel is split zoned, the one that's under consideration. So you have B2 to the, I'm sorry, to the east and the west and that is what the applicant is seeking for this parcel as well. In terms of proffers, the applicant has proffered. To restrict direct access to Fairfax Pike and they intend to gain access to the property via an inter parcel connection to the east and a roadway that's going to be built on that property. Dedication of additional right of way along 277 as noted in the proffers as necessary to construct the road frontage improvements for the full access entrance that I had just mentioned that they'll be gaining inter parcel access to, to parcel 8681, which is the parcel to the east. And also 10 cents per square foot for fire and rescue purposes. Before you, you have the proffered GDP. Once again, just to point some things out, you do see the proffered trail along here. No direct access that is to Route 277 and generalized location of a future inter parcel that will bring them over to the roadway being constructed on the other global headquarters property. I failed to mention earlier, in my presentation, all of these properties, both of these properties rather, are under common ownership. So it's not as if they need to go seek a deal to gain that. They already have it. With that said, the agency comments that were received appear to have been addressed, with the exception of where you'll see in the staff report, I have noted the need for greater clarity in the proffers related to future 277 widening needs. Mr. Frank and I have already discussed that, leading up to this meeting, and while I will let him speak directly to it, it is my impression that the applicant intends to include that in their proffers. As noted earlier, this is a public hearing. Staff following that public hearing staff is seeking a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors. I can take any questions you may have, and as I noted, Mr. Frank is here for the applicant. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. So any questions for Mr. Bishop? I'm looking to the left. And right. I have one, John. Yes, sir. When you pull up Google Maps, it's showing a structure on there, but inside the packet it showed was just bare ground. I couldn't. Okay. I think there used to be the warehouse type building there that was for the Bowman Trucking, and it's since been demolished. It's all bare now, thank you. We gotta get Google to update their map. They're usually pretty good. We're ahead of them for another. We're ahead of them for another. We're ahead of them for the moment. Is there any questions for the applicant? Anybody have any questions? Oh, Mr. Stowe, okay. Could we have the applicant on the floor, please? David enjoys me asking questions. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. My name is David Frank. I'm with Pannoni, and I'm representing the owner on this application. Mr. Frank, good to see you again. Okay, we'll start with Mr. Stowe here. Been a long time. David, in your impact study, you talked on sewer conveyance and water supply, and you basically say, hey, what we're proposing is not gonna increase the demand for services, yet it appears Frederick Water's asking you to rebuild a pump station, a wastewater pump station. Can you elaborate on that a little bit more? Yes, so this rezoning application was originally intended to be submitted probably about two years ago, and there are a lot of improvements associated with the development going on right now on the parcels to the east of this particular property, and a project known as Fairfax Downs. Those developments, the commercial and residential development that's going in with that project requires the upgrade of the existing facilities, the pump station that's located on the Sharando High School. So Frederick Water's comments are clearly stating that until that pump station is upgraded, and there's no demand, it's not gonna be a good thing. and the proper facilities are in place, this particular piece of property won't have capacity to be served. But that is all happening with the development of the commercial properties to the east. Mr. Bishop's done a good job at explaining what the application is proposing. We're looking to go down zone from industrial to commercial. It makes sense. This is a little bit of a cleanup exercise. Again, the Bowman Trucking property was in industrial use many years ago, and indeed the building has been demolished, and it is planned for future commercial development. So I think I got your question answered. You did. Thank you. I think it's a great project. I certainly support it. Thank you. Mr. Thomas. Mr. Bishop's comment about the widening of 277, do you agree with the proposal or the discussion that you two had about changing the verbiage and including that in your proffer? Absolutely. Absolutely. We're going to clarify the GDP and the proffers. To be more specific, there's going to be 60 feet of right-of-way from the center line of existing 277. That's going to be dedicated. And the construction plans are actually underway for the work in 277. So all the right-of-way is going to be not only from the subject property, but all the way down to Warrior Drive. Thank you. All righty. Any other questions? Mr. Kearns. Real quick one for you. This predates me, the Sharando Center, Town Center, as I'm reading it here. Is this the final piece of the puzzle in all of that down there? I'm just curious if this is the last piece to allow all of that to move forward. I can say this is the last piece of the puzzle owned by Global Headquarters. If you look at the picture, there are properties to the south and to the west. That aren't zoned commercial or industrial or anything right now. But as far as what's fronting on 277, all the way across to Warrior Drive, yes, this is the last piece. Any additional questions? Mr. Triplett. Excuse me. Does this affect any of the houses there, a house or two? Are they going to be demolished? No, sir. Right now, it's vacant. The old Bowman Trucking site has been demolished. It's open land, and it is going to be incorporated essentially with the adjacent. There's a land bay. There's a proposed road called Shrewsbury that will be constructed leading from 277 down to the proposed subdivision below the commercial properties fronting on 277 and to the immediate. To the west of the subject property is an existing commercial use. It's a Dollar Tree, I believe. To the south is a property owned by the Neff Construction Company. Okay. Thank you, sir. All right. We good? Thanks, sir. Appreciate your time. Thank you. Thank you. I open this public hearing to anyone who wants to come forward and speak for or against this item. Please come forward now. State your name. You're a Magisterial District. And please keep your comments to three minutes, please. I don't know if I get three minutes or not. I'm Ron Allen. What's your Magisterial District, sir? I'm right across right over this property. It's directly out my picture window. Okay. There's no houses there. There's nothing there. My concern is how much of the road they're going to widen. We've been told for 30 years they're going to take our houses out of there. I'm concerned about saving my house, seeing that that entire side of the road is completely open. Okay. So we've gotta plan ahead for a lot of things where there's nothing on that side right now. She's removed the property, I mean the buildings and all that, and what they put in there is fine by me but it's out my picture window. That's my only concern is what they're going to do with that road. Is that going to affect anything on that north side of the road? That's my question. We'll let the applicant, if you must, answer the question. If you have more to say . you're going to do. Thanks, sir. Save that house. So to address his concern, the road improvements that are happening right now are all happening on our side of the centerline. Their improvements are on the eastbound side of 277. Additional turn lanes, road widening. It appears there are going to be some medians constructed as well in the centerline. So all the construction that's happening is moving from centerline 277 south away from the gentleman's property. So there's nothing on this gentleman's side of the property? Nothing that's proposed on his side of the property, correct. Okay. Basically what I want to know. Mr. Bishop? Sorry, I fell out of the gate. You need to jump in. Absolutely. There's, this doesn't change the fact that there is a comprehensive plan to widen 277 through this, and I cannot guarantee it would not at some point in the undetermined future impact this gentleman's property. What the applicant's doing today, no, it does not. However, specific to the overall 277 widening, which of course is unfunded and the timeline is undetermined, I can't say it would or would not impact his property. It most likely would if I'm being 100% honest. I don't know to what extent. So I just wanted to be clear that we're talking a little bit about two different things there. I appreciate you jumping in, because I wanted to clarify that what the applicant's doing is not going to impact him. He deserves a fair full picture. Absolutely, and let the gentleman talk. I'll talk to you later about transportation. So, thank you. There is probably going to be some construction on my side. There'll be a right-hand turn lane going into the street. I'm on the corner of Nottoway. It's a street right there in front of it. Like I said, all this is out my picture window. And I had originally the narrowest place, because he had a home across the road there. But I do know that originally with what the plans that they've showed before, they only needed to take like 10 feet off the other side, and they could save us. So that was my biggest concern. That's all I came here for tonight, just to see about saving my home and what's going to happen. And it sounds like as long as I get another 20 years, I might not be there much longer. Thank you, sir. Alrighty. Thank you for coming forward, Doug. Anybody else to Doug this time? Alright. I'm going to close the public hearing. Commissioners, discussion? Anybody have anything to say? Well, okay. We're on a good one here. Mr. Chairman, I recommend approval of rezoning 02-23 of global headquarters. Alright. I've got a motion. I'll second it. Alright. We have a second. We'll start with Mr. Triplett. Yes. Higgins, yes. Manuel, yes. Kern, yes. Orndorff, yes. Thomas, yes. Molden, yes. Stowe, yes. Markert, yes. Brumback, yes. And the chair votes yes. Alright. And this will move forward to the Board of Supervisors. Who's September 13th? Alright. Next item up. Hello, Ms. Feltner. How are you? I'm good. How are you? Good. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Commission. This is a conditional use permit for a tractor truck and trailer truck parking. The subject property is located on Ebert Road in the Stonewall Magisterial District. If you turn your turn to the left, the property is outlined in blue. It is located east of 81 and west of Route 11 or Martinsburg Pike. And it's accessed off of Ebert Road. There's the Ebert Road. The parking layout as proposed is approximately 107 parking spaces. Tractor truck and trailer truck parking is only permitted as a conditional use permit in an M2 district. The property is zoned M2 and the current land use is vacant. The surrounding properties are also zoned M2 and utilized for industrial purposes. The supplementary use regulations require that the area utilized for parking and the storage shall have a gravel or paved surface. All paved and gravel surfaces have to be properly maintained. No inoperable tractor trucks or damaged salvaged trucks or unlicensed trailers shall be parked or stored on the property. Fuel sales are not permitted. Maintenance of truck and trailers are also not permitted. The facility shall be required to be landscaped shall be required to landscape the yard area and the front setback as well as the side and the rear. And the Board of Supervisors can opt for an alternative landscaping based off of the topography and the adjacent land uses. A site plan in accordance with the Frederick County requirements of Article 8 is required to be submitted and approved by Frederick County. Should the Planning Commission find this use appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions. All review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. A site plan shall be submitted and approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use. The site plan shall meet the requirements of the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance for tractor truck and trailer truck tractor truck trailer parking. Any expansion requires a new conditional use permit. Following the public hearing, staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. Staff is available to answer any questions and the applicant as well as the applicant representative is also available. Thank you, Ms. Feltner. Do I have any questions for Ms. Feltner? Nothing. Okay, Mr. Stowe. Was there a complaint about this property or is this voluntary? This is an active violation to come into compliance. A conditional use permit is required and the applicant is seeking such. Thank you. Okay. Am I right? We're good. Okay. Any questions for the Ms. Brubach? To piggyback off that, it's currently, it's used for trailer storage or trailer truck parking. It's currently vacant, but it is currently under a violation for the trailer. Yes. All right. Looking. Anybody have any questions for the applicant? Okay. Thank you, Ms. Feltner. I'm sorry, Amy. When you said it was currently vacant, that means there's no tractor truck parking on there now at all? So they come in compliance, they got them all off there? No. The actual property is vacant, as in there's no structure. Okay. I got you. Okay. Sorry about that. Good. No, no, no. Thank you, Ms. Feltner. All right. I open this public hearing to anyone who wants to come forward and speak for or against this item. Please come forward, state your name, Magistral District, and keep comments for three minutes. And I don't see people rushing forward here, so we're going to close this public hearing. Discussion among the commissioners. Anybody have anything they want to add to it? I think this one's pretty well, pretty, pretty strict, cut and dry. Okay. I need a motion from the Stonewall District. We've elected Justin. Motion to approve. Okay. We got a motion. Yes. Second. All right. You got a motion, we got a second. Mrs. Broomback. Broomback, yes. Markard, yes. Stowe, yes. Molden, yes. Thomas, yes. Orndorff, yes. Kerr, yes. Emanuel, yes. Akins, yes. Tripp, yes. And the vote, the chair votes yes. Okay. This will go before the Board of Supervisors on September 13th. So, thank you very much. Now we're under other. Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just a couple items for you at your coming Transportation Committee meeting for those interested on August 21st. 28th at 830 AM. There's going to be a presentation on the changes to the smart scale process. For those of you who are interested in that, if you'd like to attend, it'll be here in the purple room in the county offices. As far as site plans or current planning applications of interest, HP Hood has submitted a 25,000 square foot expansion and then we've recently got an application for a new wall wall on Prince Frederick and Route 50. Happy to answer any questions that you all might have about any items. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Any questions? All right. Do I have a motion to adjourn? So moved. We are adjourned. Have a great evening, folks.
