Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2021-06-09
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=96
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Father, we thank you for each and every one that's here. We pray blessing, grace, and peace for each and every one. We ask for wisdom and insight tonight. And once again, we thank you, Lord, for the faithfulness and service and sacrifice by Mr. Tierney in his service to our county. We pray blessing upon each and every member that's here. And we ask that, Lord, you'll be with us. We ask in your gracious name. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Thank you. sir. Vice Chairman Wells, please send a pledge please. I will stand and place the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. Adoption of the agenda. Would the board like to handle that? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of adoption of the agenda as presented. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Agenda will be adopted as presented. Citizen comments on agenda items that are not subject to public hearing. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. Thank you. Consent agenda. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the consent agenda as presented. Second. Motion in the second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. That will bring us... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Ms. Phillips? Ms. Phillips? Would you like me to read that now? Please. A resolution of appreciation. Chris C. Tierney. Whereas, County Administrator Chris C. Tierney began his career having earned his BS degree from the State University of New York at Brockport, and his MS degree from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. And whereas Chris Tierney has announced his retirement effective July 1, 2021, on the 35th anniversary of the commencement of his career in local government. And whereas Chris has served in multiple key positions in Frederick County's administration as he continued to take on roles with increasing responsibility, including zoning administrator, deputy director of planning, director of planning, assistant county administrator, deputy county administrator, and finally county administrator. And whereas during his tenure, Chris participated in numerous initiatives, including the following, drafting of the county's rural preservation subdivision regulations, creation of the conservation easement authority and program, facilitating public engagement and preparation of the county's battlefield protection plans, securing numerous battlegrounds, battlefield protection program and land and water conservation grants to assist with the purchase of portions of the Cedar Creek, Kernstown and third Winchester battlefields. Receiving an appointment to serve as founding member of the Shenandoah Valley Battlefield National Historic District Commission, where he chaired the planning committee, which developed the management plan for the historic district. And later receiving a second appointment from the secretary of the interior to serve on the Cedar Creek and Belgrove National Historic District. He was also the chair of the Park Advisory Commission, coordinating the creation of the Lake Holiday Sanitary District and securing bond financing through the Virginia Resource Authority to fund reconstruction of the Lake Holiday Dam spillway, coordinating the purchase of Sunnyside Plaza for future county use. Whereas Chris has exercised extraordinary leadership and stewardship during his employment and has contributed unselfishly to the well-being of the community by serving on countless boards of the Lake Holiday Sanitary District, he has also been a key figure in the construction of the Lake Holiday Dam spillway. He has also served on the executive committee for the Virginia State Board of Directors, the Virginia Association of Communities, such as the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission, the Virginia Chapter of American Planning Association Board of Directors, the Virginia Association of Counties, and the Virginia Local Government Managers Association, where he served on the executive committee from 2007 to 2009 and 2016 to 2018. And whereas Chris was awarded VLGMA's Marsha Mayshaw Outstanding Assistant Award in 2007, he has also served on the Executive Committee for the Lake Holiday Sanitary District, which has been a key figure in the history of the Lake Holiday Sanitary District. And whereas Chris has exercised extraordinary leadership and stewardship during the construction of the Lake Holiday Sanitary District, he has also served on the Executive Committee for the Lake Holiday Sanitary District, which has been a key figure in the history of the Lake Holiday Sanitary District, which has been a key figure in the history of the Lake Holiday Sanitary District. And whereas Chris has exercised extraordinary leadership and stewardship during the construction of the Lake Holiday Sanitary District, he has also served on the Executive Committee for the Lake Holiday Sanitary District, which has been a key figure in the history of the Lake Holiday Sanitary District, which has been a key figure in the history of the Lake Holiday Sanitary District. Thank you. Chairman. I'm sorry? Mr. Chairman. Yes. I'd like to go with the recommendation made by Staffman Carly Walker. Thank you. Second. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ms. Walker will be appointed to the Winchester Area Airport Authority. There's no committee business, no public hearings, no planning commission business. This is a great agenda. Tell you what. Uh-huh. Other planning issues. Clarification of the Board Action of May 26th meeting. Is this you, Mr. Williams? I'll certainly start it, Mr. Chairman. Thanks. What happened was at the last meeting, the Board made amendments to one of the provisions of this ordinance, which then tasked... staff with ensuring that the ordinance language that we typed up showed what the Board approved. And in doing so, what we discovered was the discussion that the Board had leading up to that language and the language that we thought was good, and I sat here and said, that makes sense, don't mesh up with each other. That language did not match. That language does not match the intent. So what is before the Board is language that does match the intent that the Board last discussed at the last meeting. I do understand, however, there may be a need for further discussion on it. So I'll leave it to the Board unless you have more for me. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Judy and I have been talking there. While this isn't perfect, there's still some issues that need to be addressed. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. They all need to be addressed. Yeah, I always say that issues that still need to be hammered out. I think the two of us are in agreement that it might be wise for us to move forward with this students to get it on the books and we could come back in the coming weeks and refine it even more, to sort of address some of the issues that other farmers and agriculturalists have brought to our attention that need to be sort of hammered out. I would like to make a motion to reapprove with this current language as proposed on the agenda. language as proposed on the agenda. Motion is there a second? Second Mr. Chairman. Second. Discussion? Just that some of the things that have come to light with farmers that I have spoken to recently is when we are talking about grain combines that that are huge and going down the road getting fuel for those vehicles means that we need or they need diesel fuel available off-road diesel fuel for those combines. Typically they'll go off hours and take their farm trucks or what have you to get the off-road diesels to fill those farm apparatus. Additionally kerosene is something else I believe we need to look at because they're also using that for grain dryers. So those are a couple things I think we need to touch base and and maybe we need to reach out and make sure we're covering all of our bases with our local co-op that provides those services as well. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Yes sir. Just for the board's benefit the new language does permit. No I'm sorry it doesn't. We left off-road diesel out of it so whatever you move as as you've discussed we'll deal with it in due course. All right. Thank you. Any other comments anyone? So the motion in the second is to adopt the current language and revisit this at some point in the future. Further Sleep出來. The new operating society answers that Same other question. Is there any objection? Are you ready. The Susan And another one is your comments are. Sub fought with the topic are my presentation does McCain?נים wh氭 Do we have any related questions for twenty or seventy is that Ron? four people pleasant recall three or six as was mentioned. to the Frederick County Social Services Board, I was very concerned to hear at its recent meeting that the Virginia Department of Social Services Licensing Division has not allowed licensing inspectors to return to the assisted living facilities and adult daycare centers that they have a responsibility to regularly inspect. Although our own county adult protective services workers have been conducting their own investigations throughout the pandemic, a critically important function of inspections by the state licensing inspectors has not been done for an unacceptably long time. These state licensing inspectors are continuing to work remotely and conducting desk reviews. But I have heard from our own Frederick County Social Services staff that in order to conduct a thorough investigation, I mean, inspection of each facility, these state inspectors need to tour the physical plants, interview the residents and the staffs, and observe the quality of care taking place in each facility. Mr. Chairman, the residents of these facilities are adults who are elderly and or disabled and are at risk of abuse, neglect, and exploitation if they are not receiving adequate care. The state licensing inspectors need to be in the facilities to ensure that this care is being provided. And I learned at the Social Services Board meeting that regrettably, there are facilities that have not had an onsite inspection by anyone from the DSS Licensing Division since 2019, over two years ago. Mr. Chairman, because of this ongoing risk to the elderly and disabled residents of Frederick County, I have to say that we have to take a step back. We have to take a step back. We have to take a step back. We have to take a step back. We have to take a step back. We have to take a step back. We have to take a step back. I ask that a letter signed by you on behalf of the Board of Supervisors be sent to Governor Northam and the Director of the Virginia Department of Social Services demanding that they send licensing inspectors into these facilities immediately. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else like to comment? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Was that a motion that we do that? If so, I would second it. Thank you. I don't quite know how to handle it. I heard the motion, but I'm willing to accept it. Is there a second? I'll second it. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll get that on the agenda. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? The liaison reports. Okay, hearing none. Citizen comments. Is this the opportunity for citizens to address the Board on any subject they might like to bring to our attention? Yes, sir. Name a magisterial district, limit your comments to three minutes or less, please, and you'll need to do that. How's that? There you go. Thank you, sir. Josh Phelps, Gainesboro District. Thanks for the opportunity tonight to introduce the Small Business Freedom Alliance. Our group of nearly 300 businesses, some of whom you will hear from tonight, formed because this past year opened our eyes to the reality that small businesses here in Frederick County and across our state and country are not valued on the state and county level. Mm-hmm. valued enough often by our local officials to protect us from unchecked government overreach at any time and for seemingly any reason. In March of 2020, all of our lives certainly got refocused, but for small businesses, we suddenly found ourselves scrambling to find out if we were essential. Who decides what business is essential? Is it by the product you sell or services you provide? Is it by the number of people you employ or the tax dollars you pay? Certainly, we thought someone somewhere in official capacity would push back against Richmond and say that businesses in Frederick County were not going to be told at what capacity they would operate, how to space their customers, etc. All this with no real data to support the new rules, no debate by elected officials, no expert witnesses or hearings, no votes by which people could be on the record, meaning no properly passed laws. Virginia's Constitution declares the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments shall be separate and distinct so that neither exercise powers properly belonging to the other. What happened in Virginia clearly was against the spirit of the passage from our founding document, and it was simply allowed to happen without protest. Here in our county. Also, enforcement was thrust upon the businesses and employees. No suggested or provided training. Suddenly, someone who was hired to stock a shelf or sell a part or answer phones had to be an enforcer of poorly written rules on behalf of the state. Recently, a supervisor who's here tonight was quoted after a public works meeting where they were discussing requiring county stickers to use county dump sites, concerned about employees having to deal with angry customers who didn't want to comply. Quote, I don't want to put those people in a policing position. What do you think was asked of all the businesses that are here, represented here, and their employees? No government entity cares more about employees and customers than a small business owner does. Safety of those folks is on the minds of the small business person every single day before, during, and after any declared emergency by any governor. This cannot be allowed to happen again, and this will happen again. Some new emergency will emerge that state or federal leadership will attach itself to, and this whole exercise will begin one more time. That's why we must make a stand now. We looked at this board and the county staff to provide the framework for our businesses to operate. When we needed to support this past year to allow us to do just that, you remain silent. We have a saying in our business that silence is consent. If you don't speak out, push back, or question something, then you are consenting to the behavior. The Small Business Freedom Alliance does not consent, and we will not be silent. We represent every county voting district. We employ your constituents. We pay a great deal of county taxes. Please keep this in mind the next time choosing silence over action. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Ms. Phelps, I didn't mean to bypass your list. Did anyone sign? No. No, sir. We don't have signatures for the second comment period. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to bring anything to the attention of the board? Welcome, sir. Again, if we could have your name, Magisterial District, and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please, sir. Thank you, Board. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My name is Charlie Markle. I'm from the Shawnee District. I want to make a couple comments on the upcoming vote you guys will have regarding the One Logistic Parks rezoning. When I bought my house back in 2019, I purchased it knowing that one day the residential community could be built next to me. I never imagined the land could be rezoned into a massive industrial data center. But now, that seems to be the case. Forever changing, the landscape of our neighborhood and conflicting with Winchester's comprehensive plan. I'm here tonight to ask the board to take serious, proactive measures and ensure the health, safety of our community when voting for this rezoning. Please keep it residential. As you all know, the recent terrorist events in the news from cities like Atlanta and most recently Loudoun County, data centers are terrorist targets. So why in the world would you want to build one next to an airport neighborhood? Why would you want to build one next to a home or a new FBI center? It puts us all at risk. Not only that, the recent public hearing in April, the developer spokesman stated publicly that they would be using the FBI energy lines for a secondary power source. Are you kidding me? Just this past week, FBI Director Christopher Wray said the recent cyber attacks across the United States and ransomware threats were comparable to global terrorism the days after September 11th. He said, and I quote, there is a responsibility, not just across government agencies, but across the private sector and even the average American. Well, I'm the average American, and I'm asking you to keep it residential, R4. We are in the best real estate market that Winchester has ever seen, and a housing shortage. So why in the world would we suddenly rezone land designated for R4 to M1, industrial and B2 businesses? Who knows what is really going to be built there? Right across the street from a brand new FBI center and residential housing with families, something doesn't add up. As you all know, once you, the board and the planning commission, give approval for this rezoning, you actually will not even know what will be built there when you are giving your approval. And in particular cases, that is very concerning. As it states in the Winchester article, In the Winchester Comprehensive Plan, our land must be, and I quote, carefully tended as it cannot be replaced once it's lost, end quote. Board members, I respectfully ask you to keep this residential. Don't violate the Comprehensive Plan. Please ensure the safety and health and critical resources of our citizens are not taken away. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else? Yes, sir. Welcome. Miles Atkins, Shawnee District. I know three minutes or less. I just want to get a commitment from the Board of Supervisors once more about the Second Amendment Sanctuary. As we know, the ATF just passed legislation limiting arm braces that could make all of us out here felons. And I just want to make sure that we are abiding by what we said before and becoming, Second Amendment Sanctuary. We're going to, you know, not have any of our local law enforcement officers enforcing any unconstitutional, it's not even a law, it's just a ruling. So just looking for that commitment from y'all. Cheers. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Anyone? Last call? Yes, ma'am. Welcome. Thank you. Pull that microphone down. There you go. Thank you. I'm pretty loud. No, I'm just kidding. I'm Patty Sullenberger from the Shawnee District, and I'm here as one of the founding members of the Small Business Freedom Alliance. And the very first tenet of the Small Business Freedom Alliance is that we believe that every business is essential. If you have to pay for food, a mortgage, rent for yourself or your business, transportation, business, insurance, personal insurance, taxes on your income, property, and everything else the government taxes, your business is essential. Thankfully, when the COVID craziness started, our business was declared essential. If it hadn't been, we were going to figure out a way how to make it essential, as we believed once the government shut us down, it would be up to them to tell us when we could reopen. We employ 44 people, and that's 44 represents 44 families. We were not going to close. We were not going to close. While we were very grateful to be open during that time, I would drive around Winchester and see our ghost town in grief. Seeing most businesses closed and knowing how that would affect our community long term was very sad to me. Every community needs thriving local businesses and a robust economy to have a healthy community. Many of our local businesses were promised if they'd only shut down for two weeks, we could flatten the curve and get back to normal. Two weeks turned into a year. Two months turned into two months. Then two months turned into opening your businesses only if you applied state mandates that were cumbersome and often ridiculous. Businesses that have been closed for months had to reinvent themselves to operate under size limitations and emergency infectious disease protocols. And I'll say we had to become doctors, nurses, and scientists in our businesses. Noncompliance was met with threats of fines and business closures. And business closings. Now we have the CDC and the Virginia Department of OSHA in conflict because VASHA has not removed or changed their emergency standards to comply with the CDC. The Small Business Freedom Alliance is organizing to defend every business's right to operate. If the big box stores and the grocery stores can be opened, every business should be able to be opened. Every business should have the right to choose what is right. We don't need the government telling us how to operate. We are small business owners. Every day we evaluate information and data and make choices on how to run our businesses successfully despite the government's attempts to hinder us. As small business owners, we are banding together and seeking reform before the next crisis. And that is why we've organized the Small Business Freedom Alliance. We believe every business is essential. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Yes, sir. Good evening. My name is Jared Mounce. I'm in the Gainesboro District. And Patty, that was well said. I'm also a representative of two small businesses in Frederick County. My father has two businesses. I've been a resident of Frederick County. I just want to say, you know, Frederick County is a great place to live. But it was very helpful to me because I was able to have a… But it was very difficult to keep a business open in this past year. And it's true for everybody. My heart went out for those businesses that couldn't stay open. They had to shut down. And, you know, that just can't happen. I know that happens from time to time, but no fault of their own. Small businesses struggling, was struggling, is continuing to struggle. I want to speak to workforce. Where has it gone? Everybody is short-staffed right now across the board. Okay? It's not one specific area. It's everywhere. Just go to a restaurant. You've seen it. I know you've seen it, where they're short-staffed. Restaurants are having to cut back their hours. They're closing early. They're closing down another day because they don't have the staff. Where did they go? Where have they gone? Okay? If you're like me, and I don't know if this is true or not, but we're hearing because of unemployment, right, and the stimulus checks, you can make as much money. Staying at home. Well, I think that's got to stop because there's jobs available. Everybody's looking for, we need employees to continue to stay open in Frederick County. Small business. And we all shop in Frederick County. And so it's essential. It's necessary. I don't know what the answer is. That's why we're looking to you. The unemployment department, I've read stories of that too. They're short-staffed. They can't even handle the volume. And they're now calling on small business to report people that are on unemployment unnecessarily. And as Patty was saying, we just can't. We're wearing too many hats as it is. You can't throw something else on top of what we're already trying to do. So we need help. We simply want to be able to go to work, earn a paycheck. We want to earn a paycheck. We don't want it to be given to us. We want to be able to earn it. And that needs to be for everybody. Everybody. I know Montana, I think they've done away with unemployment. I don't know if that can happen. I don't know if that's the right thing. I know there's different cases. But something has to happen. Or small business in Frederick County will be no more. And we're just looking for your help. And we appreciate your support. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else? Anyone? Last call? We'll close the public comment portion. Board of Supervisors comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry. Which one wants to go first? I'll go first. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before we meet again, we will be celebrating the 4th of July and the freedoms and the opportunities that that presents. Part and parcel with that is some things that I heard this evening from some of our constituents. And I've heard it from some of my constituents in my district as well. So. Something that I would like to see us look at, maybe through code and ordinance, or maybe even just through the county attorney, would be to see how difficult it may be to become a constitutional sanctuary county. What does that mean? That simply means that if any law or ordinance is passed at the federal or state level, that it would not be enforced in Frederick County if it was deemed to be unconstitutional. I believe that that could go a long ways to mitigating some of the problems that we're facing. And I believe that that could go a long ways to mitigating some of the concerns that have not only been represented tonight through the speakers, but have been represented through many constituents in my district. And I just didn't feel it was a good time to bring it up before this, but I feel tonight is a wonderful opportunity. So I would like to ask this board to have discussion on if this maybe should go to code and ordinance, if we need to look at an ordinance or something at that level, for us to have some protections for our citizens to become a constitutional sanctuary county, not just for the Second Amendment, but all constitutional values, or if this is something that the. County attorney can do some looking into one thing that is of specific concern to me is the emergency declarations because many emergency declarations supersede many constitutional items. At least that's how it is sold to us. I believe we need to look at it twofold. One under the emergency declarations and the acts that are pertaining to those emergency declarations. And the second being any. Bills that are passed in Richmond that might be unconstitutional, how we would address that. So those are all items we have to look at. But I would challenge this board to pursue looking into making Frederick County a constitutional sanctuary county. And I can think of nothing or no better time to start than the 4th of July. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Dunn. Must be off. Try it again, brother. Very good. So I want to talk about two items. One, Mrs. Sullenberger, thank you very much for putting together a group of small business people. I am one of those. I fully understand your concerns. I'm very familiar with CDC and OSHA and how they can differ with each other. I know what the fines OSHA does when you don't put a sign on the wall. $500. And there's others that you're probably even more familiar with. So look forward to working with you on that issue. Second, I want to thank you. Certainly, on this issue of small businesses, in my opinion, the governor has a lot of authority. But the bill was put forward for the General Assembly to go and a majority of that General Assembly could go and negate what a governor says. We are a democracy. We are not a kingdom. There is no King Ralph. And so I think that input from other people, members of the General Assembly, all of whom else have been elected, should determine whether or not we have a declaration which is only done by one person with no reason. by one person with no review. And that's something the General Assembly needs to consider. Secondly, five years ago, I sat on this board as a new member, and there was a discussion on tearing down an old house, an old house called the Clouser House. And I objected to that and initially was alone because this issue had been worked on for three years. And over time, other board members, including members on this committee, said, you know what, that's a good idea. We'll work to keep it. Last weekend, Bob Wells and I, Vice Chairman Wells, attended a meeting which was the fifth anniversary of that house. Initially, that house was meant to be torn down. Then we were told the cost for repairing it was $30,000. The Clouser Foundation raised the money, repaired the house for about $15,000, and today it's a good historical house that should stay in this county for a long time. We have a 99-year lease, and that should be extended. But the Clouser Foundation has done a great job. Anna Campbell, if she had not written the words, we're bitterly disappointed by what the Shawnee Land Committee had done, but we are going to continue to fight, was the words that said to me, Blaine, maybe you can save an old house. And I was glad to have been a part of that. And saving old houses is important because it just keeps part of our history. So those are two good things. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graber, I agree with you that we should have a constitutional resolution. We shouldn't need one. Everything we do, we should be guaranteeing that we protect the Constitution, so I don't disagree that we should have one, but that's not going to solve the problem. This state was the leading state in creating the Virginia Bill of Rights. The Virginia Bill of Rights was the model for the Bill of Rights for our U.S. Constitution, the purpose of the U.S. Constitution when it was promulgated was to set in writing in a way that could be understood by generations and generations the limits upon our governments of power and authority and to specifically protect the rights of the individuals. It wasn't to protect what's in the best of the majority of the individuals or the best of the welfare of a particular state versus a set of counties in Northern Virginia or Richmond area or Tidewater versus those in the Shenandoah Valley. It was to protect the rights of the individuals and the rights of the individuals versus those in the Shenandoah Valley. It was to protect the rights of the individuals and the rights of the individuals and the rights of the individuals it was to protect the rights of me and you, not what does the majority want. It was about protecting each of us and our God-given rights. Unfortunately, that symbol on our state flag, six separaturanus, unfortunately nowadays most kids are graduating have no idea what that Latin phrase means and it needs to be reinforced, six separaturanus to our state legislators and especially to our governor. That's how this is going to change is to take the tyrants out of Richmond and take them out of the state. and replace them with the people who will do the right thing. And unfortunately, that's on all of us. It's not on this board. It's on all of us as the voters. So I encourage all of you who came out here tonight who have come together and formed a group to continue to build your group to identify those candidates who are going to be elected in the upcoming election who will most likely protect those individual rights. Go out and push those candidates to all of your neighbors and explain to them the importance of why we need to elect those people and get them elected. Even if you're not elected, even if they don't get elected, that doesn't mean that our constitutional rights go away. They're inherent in our being. We were born with these rights. And if it comes down to it, at some point, you and your children may have to decide it's time for civil disobedience. You do not have to give in to a government that will infringe upon your God-given constitutional rights. That is what this country is all about. Do not fear the government that would come after you and try to infringe on your constitutional rights. That's when you have a state that will compete with you. That's when you have a state that will capitulate and give in. And that's why we're in the situation we're in now. So I encourage you to not fear the government, to take back your government. But that's on you all. We'll support it the best we can at this level. But it's only going to happen at the state level, starting with Ralph Northam. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? I'd just like to tag onto that. I was getting ready to say basically the same thing. Richmond is where we start. And come November is where you cast your ballot. We know who the candidates are. We know where we were. And we know where we've gone in one direction. So I'm suggesting exactly the same thing. If you want to change what's going on, we need to stand up now. We need to do it now and be a group. I spent a few minutes with an individual over here who's in the Republican committee. And he and I were talking about we need a stronger group of folks like you to go out. I didn't know you were in the room tonight, but we need those type of groups to go out and get this started. If we sit back, it's not going to happen. If you don't go vote, it's not going to happen. And now's the time. And I think the incentive is there. We just need to make sure that we're being heard. So I support you. I know this board supports you. I'm sorry that you had a feeling that we weren't behind you. I'm a small business owner. I employ 14 people. I have done it for 40 years. I wasn't closed down. I'm in the construction industry, so I was very fortunate. But a lot of my friends, a lot of my friends lost their businesses, lost their homes. And it's sad to watch it happen. And I certainly didn't agree with it. I wrote letters to the governor. I wrote letters to my representatives, as did many of my constituents on this board. But as you well know, it opens up. And if that person isn't interested in reading your letter, and at the state level, it goes in the trash can. And you get a very formal letter back. Thank you, we've received your letter. God bless you. So I think by sticking together, doing the things we've heard up here tonight, Virginia can go back to being the great state that it has been and can be again. So let's take our state back. That's where I'm at. Good comment. Mr. Grover, it's your pleasure. Thank you, Chair. A couple follow-ups. One, it was asking, could we do a constitutional resolution here that would then prevent unconstitutional actions on the part of the government from occurring in Frederick County? The unfortunate answer to that question is we can do one, but it's not going to have a whole lot of effect. Because we as a body have no control over the other constitutional officers. So unless you get a commitment from the other constitutional officers, including your treasurer and your commissioner and your clerks and your sheriff, then we're going to have to do something. And what we pass here doesn't have a whole lot of impact. And that's why it's so important that you not rely upon this body to solve this problem for you, but that you go to the root of the problem, which is enrichment. Second, in my lifetime, and I don't think anybody's lifetime here, I don't remember us ever having a national discussion where people talked about the free state of so-and-so versus the other states, the free state of Texas or the free state of Florida. But that's what it's come down to. So I would say that should be your tagline. That should be your mantra going forward into this election is we need to establish the free state of Virginia. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Vice Chairman Weld. Yes, Mr. Chairman. Getting off this issue, I'd like to go to a short topic. Last week, I received an email which was addressed to all members of the board from an individual offering to purchase a portion of land that was conveyed to the county back in 2003 for the purpose of creating a park in the area of the old Charlestown Road Park. And I think that's a good example of what we have come to refer as the old Charlestown Road Park. After receiving that email, the county attorney provided some guidance concerning the legal complaints that we would need to address if we were so to consider selling some of or all of this property. I don't know that the position rests on the board as regarding this offer. I understand that I would go to that answer to that question. So I'm not Ст sporting short of a plan for this measure. But it requires consideration from the board to let the general public know that we also that the board is wonderful and that the public supports this proposal. So thank you for the information.π you again for a motion. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. The motion is second. All those in favor, aye. Thank you. We'll stand adjourned. We thank everyone for their time and participation. Thank you. Thank you.
