Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2022-02-09
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=119
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Vice Chairman McCarthy. You all stand and raise your flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. Option of the agenda. Are there any proposed changes? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd make a motion that we adopt the agenda with one change. I'd like to add under 8-alpha, if possible, a discussion on having a joint work session with the town of Middletown to discuss their friendly boundary line adjustment. I hear a second. This is not our own procedure and we eliminate the possibility of our citizens being aware that we're having this discussion. I have a question. Yes, sir. Supervisor Graber, is this a discussion that you want to have with the board tonight or is this comments you want to make to the board for us tonight? I wanted to get a consensus from the board on, on having a work session with the town council prior to next meeting based upon some revelations that came Friday at our planning commission work session and Monday's work session from the town themselves. You're not asking us to discuss the merits of the Middletown proposal? Not at all, sir. I'll second the motion. All right. Heard the motion. Second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes no because it eliminates advance notice to our citizens. Motion carries. We'll add that under 8 as 8A. Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as amended. Motion? Second? Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the agenda as amended. Citizen comments or agenda items that are not subject to public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No, sir. Thank you. Consent agenda. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. Is there a second? Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Consent agenda as adopted as presented. Board of Supervisors comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarty. I have two comments. First, as we all know, the Parks and Rec Commission presented this board with a proposal for an aquatic center last year and started an effort to get a referendum on the ballot to determine whether or not the county residents had a desire to borrow in excess of $20 million for construction of that facility and we know that measure did not succeed in great part due to, I believe, the cost to the taxpayer and other higher priority needs for taxpayer-funded services. Late last year, several supporters of the aquatic center initiative came together and recognized that if the community was ever going to be in a position to establish such an aquatics facility, that it would need to be done as a private-public partnership with a significant bulk of the cost being paid for by the private sector. These supporters of an aquatic center have formed a non-profit foundation called the Two for Two Foundation and they've been working very hard to garner the financial support of private donors in our community. I've met and been communicating with the representatives from Two for Two Foundation several times over the past couple months and I believe that their idea of a privately funded aquatics and ice rink facility, if it can come to fruition, would be a valuable asset to our community, especially if it comes to us with little to no cost to the taxpayer. This week, I also met with Clark County Supervisor Doug Lawrence, who also sees the potential in this public-private partnership to bring a great asset to our region that could benefit the citizens of Frederick and Clark Counties and perhaps other localities as well. I've asked the Two for Two Foundation to begin to formalize their proposal for such a facility that can be presented to the boards of supervisors for consideration and I'd like to encourage each of my fellow supervisors to encourage and support this effort, which was undertaken by the Two for Two Foundation and to meet with its representatives to discuss the potential for such facility in our community and the inroads that they've made with their private donors. I'd also encourage my fellow supervisors to consider the possibility of joining with Clark County or other localities to partner up with the Two for Two Foundation to make such a facility a reality. My hope is that in the coming months we'll be hearing a lot more about the development of the facility plan and the private funding of such a facility. I'm very pleased to see so many private citizens coming together to make this vision a reality and I wholeheartedly support their efforts moving forward on this. That's one. Two, at our last meeting I mentioned that under Virginia law the Board of Supervisors does in fact have the authority to fund certain private schools for our citizens. Our county attorney has done some of the preliminary work to begin looking into that process and since the date of our last meeting I received an overwhelming outpouring of requests from citizens asking us to continue to pursue this as a potential option for Frederick County. There are many parents and grandparents in our county who would like us to pursue an alternative to the one-size-fits-all top-down school system that is currently in place. I would like to make a motion that we direct the county attorney to begin developing a legal outline and action plan for presentation of this board for funding of private educational options as currently authorized under Virginia law and that this outline be presented to our board prior to the March 2nd budget work session. That's a motion. I'll second that motion. Second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully support the comments that were made by Supervisor McCarthy. It is past time that our citizens have the opportunity to direct their students to get an education that best meets the thoughts, ideals, and values of that family. We have, for many years, spent large amounts of money in our local school system only to find out that they're teaching critical race theory under another name. That other name was deep equity. Now, many of us were told for many years that deep equity was not being taught to the children only to find out through Facebook posts, through rosters from students who were attending that, that that program was indeed being taught to our local school students. We were also told by school administration for multiple years that there were no local dollars being spent on deep equity training for our children, aka critical race theory. Only to find out that local dollars, in fact, more than 50% of the program local dollars were being utilized to pay for those programs. Therefore, I can think of no better way than to empower our parents and to move forward with the plan that has been proposed by Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I, I, I'd just like to say I've always been an advocate and a supporter of public schools in Frederick County. I think they've done a wonderful job. They provide an education to the majority of young youth in Frederick County. However, I've also always been an advocate that you should have the right to send your child wherever you would like for it to go or he or she to go. And I'm also an advocate of some kind of a voucher system or a tax reduction system or something. And maybe that's where we're going turning this over to find out the legal way of doing it to offset some of the costs that those parents do. It's, to me, it's not about, the funding is not about what's being taught in school at this time. It's, I don't care what we were doing at the time if everything was perfect in the school and being taught everything that you wanted to be taught, there's still folks that would rather send their children to a private school or even homeschool and that kind of thing and they deserve some kind of payback for what they're doing. They pay taxes. I understand that. Just like you put your car on the road and you pay road taxes and maybe you don't even own a car but you still pay for that. But I still think it's fair for us to take a look at it. So, I'm in agreement with the idea of taking a look to see what we can do and I'm in agreement that we'll benefit those folks and also benefit Frederick County. I appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes. I would just like to say that, you know, I'm sure we're all well aware that the governor is working on legislation to address this very issue. It is a process that's going on at this time and I do think that it would be prudent for us to evaluate that information that's coming forward as well. So, just throw that out. If we could go through the study period and Mr. Williams provides information, there probably is no, you know, that that may be helpful. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Supervisor McCarth. I would like to reiterate Supervisor Slaughter and Supervisor Wells. I agree with you for what both of you said. I think we should evaluate everything. I don't think there's a one-size-fits-all model for this. I think it's a one-size-fits-all for all of our families and I think the more options that we can bring to bear that will help our students to achieve and become lifelong learners and critical thinkers is nothing but a benefit to our society as a whole and to our county in particular. So, I appreciate your willingness to explore this with us and hope you'll vote in favor of it. Further discussion? Anyone? I have to say I have great concerns to subsidize people who want to send their children to private school may or may not be a positive thing but I think that it takes away from those monies that are in our public schools which we a ton of money a year a hundred plus million dollars I think does not speak well to our teachers and our other staff for the excellence that they attempt to achieve. That's it. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. If I may? Yes. Just to put this in perspective a little bit. The last year that we looked at it which was last year this time and we were going through the budget process the state allocates a percentage of monies that each locality should contribute to the school system. Last year if you look at our locality we funded additionally which is above and beyond what the state said we should fund our school systems by 143 percent. So, that means if we should have given them 45 million we gave them in excess of 90 million which is what we did. So, if you go back and look at the numbers we have more than fully funded our school systems. And my concern is what are we getting in return for our money? And I think if we go back and look at what our private schools in the county are doing for less money per student than the end product that you are getting I think that this is a wise use of county funds to allow our children to get a high quality education in a school that more closely represents the values of the school. And I think that's a good thing that we're sending them there. And so, I think this is a win-win situation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes. Supervisor Slaughter. Well, I do believe a study period would be prudent on this board's part before we venture in making any changes. I'm sorry? I said, I believe that a study period would be prudent for this board to consider if we're going to if that is the direction and that a public hearing allowing all of our citizens to have a voice in this direction before moving forward. So, I'm certainly willing to see what Mr. Williams provides back to the board. I also think it would be beneficial for us to understand what the governor is putting forward before we move forward in any direction. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To that point, my understanding with an early communication with county attorney is that this would be somewhat of a budget process, would be part of that budget process. Now, the information may change as the county attorney does more research on this, but it would be part of a budget allocation, a budget proposal of some kind. So, I think the most appropriate way is that it would be wrapped up into our budget discussions as we're moving forward into the future. But I agree that we should look at what the governor's doing, but at the same time, you know, I talked to several citizens this morning. I talked about subsidiarity and all too often, sometimes, I think we wait for someone up the chain to make the decisions for us when we really should be trying to address things at a local level. And if we really want to see change in our community, change in our state, change in our federal government, the change starts in this room right here and it works its way up. So, I'd like us to consider, you know, actually taking action that would work for our community, and see if that doesn't start a ripple effect that works up because I would love to see Frederick County look at doing something. I'm not saying what that would be, ultimately, because I think we need to sit down and go through an exercise to figure out what that would look like and how that would work. But I would love to see Shenandoah County and Warren County and Clark County and the whole Shenandoah Valley start to look at this and say, you know, how do we address the situation that hasn't been addressed for years by our community? And our governor is not talking about school vouchers right now and he's not talking about school choice. He's talking about charter schools. And that's an extremely limited form of school choice, so to speak. I'm talking about a much broader look at this, a more holistic look at this. So I really would encourage us and I would encourage our community to start thinking about these things, the citizens to start thinking about these things so that we can get your input. But I think that now is the time to at least start exploring it and not put it off any longer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Yes, sir. Supervisor Wells. Again, I want to reiterate, I don't, I don't look at this as a process of punishing the public school system. Public school system needs to exist. Not everyone is going to be homeschooled. Not everyone's going to go to a private school. Not everyone can afford to do that. Not everyone can afford to homeschool their children. So our public schools serve a big purpose in our community and we need to support them. Now, if we have problems with what they're teaching and so forth and so on, then we need to be vocal and talk about that. But, I, I, don't want, I, I look at this as an opportunity, a positive opportunity for a group of folks who do have the ability to attend private schools or homeschool or whatever to get some kind of a restitution back since they're not taking money out of the public school. However, I don't want to look at it as a punishment to the school. Let me, let me show you what we're going to do to you and then the only thing you've got then is a public school for folks that can't, afford the private school and that's not right. We need to have good public school systems teaching what we would like for them to teach and the only way we get that is by speaking out and letting folks know what we would like to see going on in there. The more we do that, the better off we are and, again, like I say, it's an opportunity to research what we can do and come up with some good ideas and I think a public hearing is the way to go when we get ready to do that. I agree it starts at the bottom, works, it's way up so this is a good start. Thank you. Further discussion, anyone? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes no. Motion carries. We'll proceed down that path. That'll bring us to appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. Planning Commission. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I believe Supervisor Graber had added an item 8A under county officials. That would be your next item. I'm sorry. I apologize. Supervisor Graber, 8A. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, we held a work session with our planning department and through discussions with transportation and other items that were discussed there, water, sewer, and many other items within the county, there was a lot of discussion on the planning department request for a friendly boundary line adjustment by the town of Middletown. And some of the things that I heard included in that conversation were obvious transportation issues and the issues that Stephen City has encountered as a result of the large growth there. The water and sewer with Middletown already providing sewer services across the interstate and public service. There's obviously a mutual aid agreement with the sheriff's office and with the town of Middletown. And with some of the proposed development that may be in the middle of the city, there's a lot of development that may be in the middle of the city, and there's a lot of development that may be in the middle of the city, and there's a lot of development that may or may not come across the interstate boundary line there. There will likely be an expectation that Middletown will continue to be asked to provide services across the interstate, whether that be law enforcement assistance, whether that be additional sewer services, or whether the town will simply be impacted by the transportation that that additional development may bring. So in the light of transparency and allowing all of our residents to have a voice, I would desire that for all of us to be able to support the work that we are doing in the city. So I would like to ask to ask the board to agree to meet with the town of Middletown Town Council prior to our next board meeting to discuss how we can find common ground to meet the needs of both the town as well as those county residents because this will have an impact, a significant impact on the town as well as the county. And I think in good faith, we should at least have an open meeting, a work session where we can discuss these items. I'd like to make that as a motion. I'll second the motion. I'm sorry. I'll second. Second. We have a second. Is there discussion? Would this, Supervisor Graver, would this be a meeting that's like a public hearing open to everyone to come in? I'd like to see first what exactly the town, fully the town desires. Right. And we can also express our desires of what we'd like to see if we move forward in any direction. I think it's just a good way for us instead of talking through staff, instead of talking through emails, because there's been some emails that have been missed that I haven't seen, that we as a board share our thoughts and we hear from the town council what their thoughts are so that there can be good open dialogue on how we move forward. The only problem I have with transparency is I just don't feel real transparent if the two boards are meeting in one room and public is not welcome. Thank you. If I might, Mr. Mr. Chairman, in response to Supervisor Wells' comment, it would be an open public meeting much like this is. It wouldn't be a closed meeting or a closed session because it's not a topic that would qualify for that discussion so it would be an open public meeting and a public dialogue. I think it should be advertised as such. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Tibbs. Okay, further discussion. I don't know who I interrupted. I was just going to ask just to follow up with Supervisor Wells. Just so I'm clear, staff is clear when they communicate with both sides, you're asking for a budget work session where the two entities talk and the public is welcome to come watch but we're not asking the public to participate in the discussion at this point but that may come at a later date? Exactly. My thought process is we hear both sides of the story, see if we can find an area that we may be able to agree and then get public input on if they feel that that is an appropriate step forward. I'm open to a public meeting but I'd like to have first things first. So when you initially made this request a month ago, you asked the two planning departments to get together and give us a report. We have not yet seen that. So before we go into a public meeting with Middletown, I'd like to have whatever the two planning departments have, I'd like to be able to read it, regurgitate it, have a day or two to ask follow-up questions, and at that point in time I'd be open to it. But I'm not open to a public meeting until we've done things first. So from my perspective, I'd say what the planning departments have, read it, if I have some follow-up questions to get clarification and then come through. But I'm not comfortable until that's done. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. May I respond? So Mr. Dunn, I fully appreciate your concerns. The problem is I have been in a meeting as recently as about three weeks ago where staff came in and said I don't believe that the board is interested in a friendly boundary line adjustment, that the board may be interested in a different approach. And that was the first I heard about that when I walked into that meeting. So I think there has been some discussions by some staff thinking we are not interested in one route or another. And I think in order to clear the air and allow everyone to have a fair discussion, that we get both sides together, we talk about what we truly are looking at, and then have that discussion. Since I asked that, and since I since planning commission or planning members have met with them, it is my understanding that just this past Monday, and I believe we all have the letters from Greenway Engineering in front of us, that there have been other landowners within the last three days, four days, that have asked to be a part of this boundary line adjustment. So the process, I shouldn't say the game, but the entire situation has been so fluid, it has been changing as recently as 48 hours ago. I think that we sit down, we talk about it as both sides, we hear each other's concerns, and after we hear each other's concerns, we see how planning can move forward, how we can move forward. But right now, we haven't had that discussion in any format. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Graber, I had a conversation with Mr. Pearson earlier today, and I believe that they do have a document that's going to come to our attorney, and then it's coming to us. So I'll just reiterate, I'm going to I'd like to, you made the request to have the two planning departments come together, I'd like to see what is in that. I understand the last 48 hours, but I want to read through that. I also asked Mr. Pearson, based upon your earlier comments, what happens if A, B, C, D, and E, and so I want to see what the responses are from staff, and then have that conversation. I'm going to say, I'd like to see first things first, that's all. Mr. Graber. Mr. McArthur. As a point of clarification, Mr. Dunn had asked a series of questions at the beginning of the process, and we've written some draft responses to that, to which I had sent to Mr. Williams, and what Mr. Dunn's referring to, to make sure I was understanding the legal situation correctly. As far as being directed by the board to develop any form of a report, we will do our normal process of providing a memo outlining the requests and the bounds with which the board can operate within, but since it is a friendly adjustment that's being requested, we're not looking to compile any of the necessary data that would be needed in the context of a different type of request. In other words, at this point, we're not anticipating having a bunch of data other than answers to Mr. Dunn's questions. Nothing substantial on the data side. Mr. Dunn's questions, I think, will be helpful for the entire board to have context about the situation and conserve in that respect, and then also the memo that would come supplanting that would also include Middletown's request that's changed a couple times, and this would provide the details of that, a map, and then just the legislative history that Middletown took to result in their decision requesting this of the board. How soon we might see that? Our plan was already to be at your February 23rd meeting, and so if the board does choose to make that a work session in which Middletown is open and attending at, we're still on track as far as I'm concerned. Address Supervisor Dunn's concerns that we could have it a few days, a few days ahead of time so that it can be digested before the meeting. Shouldn't be a problem. Thank you. Further discussion, anyone? As of this morning, we haven't even received a formal request from Middletown for what they discussed at their last council meeting. I have no objection to a sit-down open discussion. It's only two weeks, what you're asking for. I'm not sure that can meet the schedule. But soon, I think, can. But I don't know about two weeks. My concern. Mr. Chairman, if I may? Yes, sir. I'd like to ask a question, Mr. Pearson. Is two weeks appropriate? Do you feel time-wise to make this happen or is that pushing it out too long? Do we need to push it two weeks further? What is your professional judgment? I'll give my answer and then ask Mr. Tibbs to back me up if I'm incorrect on this. But given the context that you're in right now, there's no expectation that the board would need to hold a public hearing because any action that you take would still require Middletown to go back and survey the properties. And so if we're shooting for the 23rd, I feel confident that the information that I'm preparing on my end will be ready in time for that. And then to the chairman's comment, I know Middletown is already planning to take formal action to formalize the consensus they came to at their last meeting, I think early next week, which would meet that as well. That's correct. We, as Mr. Pearson said, we were targeting the 23rd for a board work session where staff would bring the request, the maps, sort of outline everything for the board so the board would have that information. So it's going to be the same information whether it's a board work session or joint meetings. We could definitely have that prepared by the 23rd. Thank you. All right. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Pearson, so, if the board votes for the 23rd, then you think without being pushed, without being pushed, that you'll be able to provide the answers to the questions that I raised a couple days earlier? Yeah, absolutely. Okay. Yes, sir. Thank you. All right. Are we ready? Supervisor Ludwig, nope. Supervisor Graver, aye. Supervisor Dunn, aye. Supervisor McCarthy, aye. Supervisor Wells, aye. Supervisor Slaughter, aye. Supervisor Ludwig, aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. All right. That'll bring us to appointments, boards, committees, and commissions. Planning Commission, Gainesboro. Supervisor McCarthy. Mr. Chairman, I would move to appoint Jason Akins to a four-year term as the Gainesboro District Representative on the Planning Commission. Second. Motion is second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Akins is appointed. Planning Commission, Redbud. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to reappoint Kay Dawson. Second. Second. Motion in the second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ms. Dawson is appointed. Planning Commission, Redbud. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to appoint Charles Market. He's a sole engineer. He's also a facilitator. He combines a good combination of analytical abilities plus people skills, so I'd like to nominate him for the Planning Commission. Second. Motion in the second. Is there any discussion? Discussion. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Market is appointed. Extension Leadership at large. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would move to reappoint Ms. McKay to the at large position on the Extension Leadership Advisory Committee. Second. Motion in the second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ms. McKay is appointed. Extension Leadership, Sean E. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. It's my pleasure to nominate Ms. Delores Stottlemyer for a position on the Extension Leadership Advisory Committee. Second. Second. Motion in the second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ms. Stottlemyer is appointed. Extension Leadership at large. Mr. Chairman. Yes. I would move to appoint Conduct Moon to a four-year term. As an at-large member of the Extension Leadership Advisory Committee. Second. In the second, is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ms. Moon is appointed. And that will bring us to Extension Leadership four-year term at large. Mr. Chairman. Yes. I would move to deny the appointment of Kim Herbstritt to the Extension Leadership Advisory Committee. Second. Motion in the second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. The reason I'm moving to deny is Ms. Herbstritt is not a member of Frederick. She's not a resident of Frederick County. She's a resident of the city of Winchester. She also said in her application that she's running a mushroom farm, but my understanding is that mushroom farm is no longer in operation. So I'd like to see us find a Frederick County resident to fill this position on the Frederick County Extension Leadership Advisory Committee. I'm not sure where she lives, but she does own a farm in Frederick County. She did. Mr. Chairman. Yes. I spoke with Mr. Sutton this week and asked him about all of these candidates, and he was advocating for all of them. There is a relationship with Winchester and Frederick County with Extension, and he strongly supported all of these candidates. Extension does serve Winchester City as well. Okay. All right. We have a motion, and did I hear a second? Yes, sir. Second. And I heard a second. Is there any discussion? Is this a motion to deny? Yes, it is. I'm hearing no discussion. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed, no? No. I think the no's have it. I call for roll call, though. I call for roll call. Happy to. All right. This is a motion to deny the appointment of Ms. Herbstritt. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes no. Motion carries. We'll have a vacancy there that we'll be looking for someone to fill. That'll bring us to 9-H. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I would move for approval appointment of Kylie Gore to the Extension Leadership Advisory Committee. Motion. Is there a second? And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ms. Gore is appointed. We are also, as a board, seeking applicants of interest to serve on two vacancies on the Hanley Regional Library. If you are interested or know of anyone interested, please contact admin. Or you can contact me. Or? I'm the liaison for the Hanley Board. There you go. I'd be happy to talk with anybody. We're a supervisor. Supervisor Wells. Committee business, no. Public hearings, no. Planning commission, public hearings, conditional use permit 1021. Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the board, it's conditional use permit. I turn your attention to the map on your left, gives you an aerial view of the property where it's conditional use permit for you tonight. Let's picture the tower that's on the property as of today. The French County zoning orders does allow for the construction of telecommunications facilities in its RA zoning district with an approved conditional use permit. This subject tower was constructed with an approved conditional use permit and therefore is in violation of the French County zoning orders. The applicant is seeking approval of this conditional use permit to abate the zoning violation. Should the supervisors find this used to be appropriate, the following conditions could be assigned to it. Number one, all review agencies and comments comply with at all times. Number two, tile will be provided for co-location of personal or wireless service providers. Number three, the tire should be removed by the applicant or property owner within 12 minutes. Or months of abandonment operation. And number four, any modification or expansion of this use would require a new conditional use permit. Now this conditional use permit was brought in front of the Planning Commission, which held a public meeting on this application at their October 20th, 2021 meeting and denied, recommended denial of the conditional use permit. Staff is seeking the decision from the Board of Supervisors on this request for a conditional use permit for a 90 foot, telecommunications tower. And for the record, the applicant is here to answer any questions. Mr. Chairman, you or any board members may have on this conditional use permit. Thank you. Questions of Mr. Chair and anyone? Thank you, sir. The applicant have anything they want to say? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Good evening. My name is Andrew Hill, and I am here this evening as attorney for the property owner, David Hermans, who's also present seated back there and is available to answer any questions. If any of you have any as noted by Mr. Sharon in his presentation, this property is located at 101 Greenway Court in the Bat Creek Magisterial District, zoned R.A. My client, Mr. Hermans, has applied for a conditional use permit for a 90 foot tower that was constructed in. In order to be able to receive wireless broadband services to his home. As Mr. Sharon noted, the tower was put up before the C. O. P. Was applied for, and the C. O. P. Is being sought to bring the property into compliance with the zoning ordinance. There are two main items that I would like to address in order to advocate for approval of my client's application. Number one is the personal use nature of the tower. And number two, I do want to comment on the proceedings before the planning commission. First, again, the most important factor is that this is a personal use tower with the possible exception. Of the co-locating option included on page one of the staff report, which Mr. Sharon just referenced. This tower is only for Mr. Hermans and his family to receive Internet service at their home. There's no issue of this being any sort of relay site for other services for anyone else, including any sort of commercial operation. Furthermore, as is evident from the staff report, there are no agency issues all came back either with approval or had no comment on the matter. Similarly, both at the planning commission and my understanding is this evening. There's. Are no no comments from any of the neighboring properties or anyone else on this on this application. Mr. Hermans as contractor what who installed the tower advised that no C. U. P. Was necessary and as soon as Mr. Hermans learned that a C. U. P. Was in fact required, he applied immediately and is acting in good faith to get into compliance. As far as I've seen in my research, there are very few of these personal use towers that have not been issued to C. U. P. And perhaps part of the reason for that is that these personal use towers are protected under certain federal federal. Regulations issued by the F. C. C. Called the O. Tard rule, which in essence allow consumers to install antennas for reception of over the air services, including wireless broadband services at locations and heights sufficient to obtain an acceptable quality signal. And this is what we believe that Mr. Hermans has done. As a final note on the federal law issues that may be a slightly matter of semantics, but this is not technically a telecommunications towers as the FCC defines it. It's a personal use facility for for private wireless. Reception. Before I close my comments and and uh, and uh, open my uh, myself and my client up to comments from the board members, I would like to speak briefly to the proceedings before the planning commission as the staff report notes and as Mr. Chair and decided to you. The C. U. P. Application was before the planning commission on October 20th of last year. The staff report is not particularly particularly illuminating in terms of what happened at that meeting. But I hope that at least some of you were able to watch the recording of that meeting. Um, and if you if you happen to have watched. It you'll have seen very run of the mill discussions at the beginning, um, regarding bringing the tower into compliance. At the beginning when Mr. Hermans was answering questions from the planning commission. Uh, my he misunderstood a question that had been asked, and he said that Verizon had constructed his tower. Um, there were general discussions among the planning commission members seemed favorable, seemed to be on its way to being approved. But then toward the end, it came to light and follow up questions that Winchester Wireless had actually been the one that constructed the tower. Mr. Uh, Commissioner Jewell, um, started. In essence. You know, um, voicing his opinion about Winchester Wireless putting up towers without approval. Um, other members of the planning commission agreed and it kind of snowballed from there, and the vote ended up being ended up being nine to two to recommend denial of the C. U. P. To me, this looks an awful lot like guilt by association and essentially punishing a property owner simple because of which contractor put up his tower. Again, Mr. Hermans has erected this tower for his personal Internet service. Yes, Winchester Wireless constructed it, but that was their only involvement. Um, he's their customer. It remains their customer. But, um, and again, Mr. Hermans has has sought the C. U. P. In good faith. As soon as he received notice that it was needed. These cases should be, um, I contend considered on their own merits and on the merits of this case, the property owner erected the tower for personal use. Again, that personal use is protected under federal regulations. The tower was erected in a location necessary to receive services home. Um, and again, as I noted a moment ago, we do not believe he should be penalized simply because of where he gets his Internet service. Our view that this our view is that the tower is not a good place to be. Um, and again, as I noted a moment ago, we do not believe he should be penalized simply because of where he gets his Internet service. Our view that this our view is that this is a very routine matter similar to C. U. P. Is approved by the board in the past on similar, uh, similar requests. And we respectfully request that you vote to approve this. And I thank you for your time. Uh, again, I would be happy to field any questions as well as Mr. Hermans, who is here as well. Questions of Mr. Hill. Questions of yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. I have a question for Mr. Hermans, if I might. Mr. Herman. Yes, thank you, Mr. Herman. When you were contracting to have this tower built, um, was there a discussion about the C. U. P. That, you know, you could ask for approval at a later date. Was there any discussion at all about C. P. S. At that time? It was very limited. It was very limited. We were in a real panic because my wife's a teacher and makes a lot of use of the Internet. I work online, so we really need Internet bad. And we had tried. Uh, I won't list all the names to name the company except for, um, who are they? Satellite service. But satellite service was, um, well, if you saw the ad for it, don't believe it. It's not quite that good. But but we mentioned it, but it sounded like something that was, I guess he kind of made it sound like a formality. And it's something that I could catch up. You know, it's it's, you know, if they need one, they'll ask you for one kind of thing. And I just I took that to heart. I didn't I didn't know any better. I just moved in less than a year ago at that time. But I type in a certain got one. I don't see whatever, but sort of a little dream one. And but the goal is to actually get close and people to know what it is. And what they say while there's. Any discussion? No. No. No. No. No. No, we met a couple days. Oh my. He made you aware that there could be a need for a CUP, but he didn't think that it was a major concern at that point in time. Would that be fair to say? Yes. Okay, thank you, sir. Other questions of Mr. Herman or Mr. Hill? Supervisor? Done. I understand. I just want to confirm. You had a conversation earlier, and you wanted an up or down vote. You did not want an extension of this. Is that correct? No, I did not. Okay, thank you. Anyone else? Questions? Either gentleman? Hearing none. Thank you. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No, sir, but I will note that you received one electronic comment received earlier today that I forwarded to you. Yes, thank you. Yes, sir. I have one follow-up question for Mr. Sharon, if I might. Mr. Sharon, if you would, please, sir. I've already opened the public hearing. I'm sorry. We can close the public hearing if you want. I think we'll be okay. Mr. Chairman, how did this come to the attention? How did this come to the attention of zoning? Was it a complaint by a neighbor? How did this come to a... It was a complaint. That's how we do complaint basis. Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The public hearing, did anyone want to comment concerning this application? Anyone? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing portion of the meeting. How would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. This is in my district. I'm going to make a motion, and hopefully we can have some discussion afterwards. I'm going to make a motion that we approve conditional use permit 10-21 for David Hermans for conditional use permit on the property identified as 60A-2A-A-16. However, depending upon our discussion this evening, I may or may not support this motion. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second, anyone? Your motion will die for lack of a second, sir. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I move for denial of the CUP request. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor McArthur? When we're looking at CUPs, we look at the appropriateness of the application. We look at the impact to the neighbors. In this case, this came to the attention of the board because of a complaint from a neighbor. We did receive email today with concerns regarding this tower, and I think that based on the comment of the applicant that he was made aware that there was a CUP process, but that you could catch up later. I think that insinuation of we can catch up later is reminiscent of what I said earlier about the contractor who says, well, you want to do this off the books, and if you get caught, we can do it on the books. I'm not saying that that was what the intention was, but there just seems to me to be more leaning in the direction of it wouldn't be appropriate under the circumstances. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just for the record, I did have two neighbors call and complain and indicate that they were not in support of this tower remaining. I do do several other extinguishing circumstances, so the general comments from the community has not been favorable. Further discussion? Anyone? Are we ready? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes? Aye. The motion carries to deny. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you again, Mr. Chairman. This application in front of you again tonight is also a request for a conditional use permit to allow for construction of a 60-foot wireless telecommunication tower of personal use. This property is located at 104 Rockwell Trail, which is in the Back Creek Magisterial District, and actually, is in the Shawnee Land subdivision. The property is zoned R5, a residential recreational community. It also shows you right there on the map there on our first slide. Again, the zoning ordinance allows for commercial telecommunications facilities in our R5 zoning district when it approves conditional use permit. Excuse me. Our comprehensive policy plan of Frederick County shows this area to remain residential in nature. It is consistent with the current zoning and the use of the site. The properties adjacent to this proposed tower are vacant and also zoned RA. Should the Board of Supervisors find this, and I said RA, and let me go back. It was R5, just for the record. I'm sorry about that. Should the Board of Supervisors find this use to be appropriate, the Planning Commission recommend these conditions for approval on this conditional use permit. One, all agency comments should be required to be complied with at all times. Number two, the tire should be removed by the applicant or property owner within 12 months of the abandonment of the operation. And three, any expansion or modification of the conditional use permit would require a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission recommended approval of this conditional use permit on their July 19, 2022 meeting. And staff, staff is, this item was presented by staff. As a public hearing, and staff is seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors on this request. Just for the record, this applicant actually did apply for a conditional use permit and did ask staff the process to do it. And I believe the prices are here. Unfortunately, that was six, so I did not, I was not at the Planning Commission, though I did meet them. But they did actually come in and request it from staff. With that, Mr. Chairman, I'll be happy to answer any questions you or any Board members may have on this proposed conditional use permit. Questions of Mr. Chair and anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've had a little conversation with my Planning Commission representatives, and they had indicated that the applicant would like to possibly place a TV antenna or possible other small antennas on it for that purpose. Would there be anything additional needed in order for those items to be co-located? No, sir. Excellent. Thank you. Other questions of Mr. Chair and anyone? Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. I have a question for Mr. Price, please. Thank you, sir. Mr. Price, would you be willing to answer a question? Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Price. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the process of applying for this, have you spoken with the neighbors around the area of the lot where you're going to be building this, and have you gotten any negative feedback at all from? No, there's only one neighbor next to me, and they don't really live in the house. It's empty, so no one said anything. I put the sign up in front of my house as I was instructed, and the whole reason for this is I'm getting ready to retire next month, and my wife and I are going to be building a house on that property, and that's going to be our forever home, so having the Internet service is going to be very important to us. And the other gentleman addressed my one concern about number three, about the any expansion or modification, because we did want to put a TV antenna on it. We're looking at alternative forms of power, so I might put some solar panels on it or maybe a power generator, but that's it. It's just for personal use, no commercial use at all. No negative comments that you've heard so far? No. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Thank you, Mr. Price. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. All right. Anything else? The board. Still public hearing. Did anyone sign up? Ms. Burke? No, sir, but you did receive electronic comments on this one as well. We did receive those, yes. Thank you. It says public hearing. Did anyone want to comment concerning this CUP application? Anyone? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing portion of the meeting. This is Back Creek. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I make a motion that we approve permit number 14-21 for terrace. Terrance Price with property identification number 49B03-123-251. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor? Yes. I would just say on this one, as far as I know, there were no negative feedback from any adjacent neighboring properties. So to me, this is one of those where it kind of ticks all the boxes. It meets the needs of the homeowner, the applicant. There was no negative comments or anyone opposing. There was nothing that owns property adjacent to it. So I think this is one worthy of approval. Further discussion? Anyone? Are we ready? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes no. Motion carries. CUP is approved. Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CUP 1321. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And- Yes. And- Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So, forgga, wherever you are, Mr. Chairman. That's his name. board a couple months ago. The Board of Supervisors did hold a public hearing on this item after January 12, 2022, following a hearing, the application was tabled to address concerns expressed regarding the material storage and transportation issues on these properties. Since the meeting, the applicant has agreed to, and it will be, Mr. Chairman, at the end, part of the conditions of the Conditional Use Permit, but in staff talking with the applicant after they had, the Board expressed some issues with this Conditional Use Permit. One was they would store tractor trucks and empty trailers only, because that was one of the things that was brought up with the trailers and what was being kept in there. Number two, they were going to prohibit access to the site between the hours of 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. and 6 p.m., and that was a very important issue. And so, the Board of Supervisors did hold a public hearing on this item after January 12, 2022, following a hearing, the applicant was brought up with concerns about the material storage and transportation issues on these properties. And so, the Board does alleviate one of the transportation issues. I'm going to get back into what the Conditional Use Permit was brought up during the last public hearing. Just again for reference, there are three properties totaling three acres here. The applicant, which during your January 12th meeting showed in layout of the property, which I will have, if the Board members need to look at it again, and basically it's going to contain 85 parking spaces on a gravel surface. The Board of Supervisors did hold a public hearing on this item after January 12, 2022, following a hearing on the property, which I will have, if the Board members need to look at it again. Just again for reference, there will be buffers adjacent to the B2 and Weltham Road and Crown Lane and in the rear of the site. Access will be a right-in lane on Weltham Road and an entrance on Crown Lane. VDOT just, again, had indicated that this entrance will require further vetting and therefore did not currently approve the entrance configuration. It should be noted that the transportation network in this area of the county is constricted. I know everybody's been up there, so you know what we're talking about. And so, I'm going to get back into that. And so, the Board of Supervisors did hold a public hearing on the property, which I will have, if the Board members need to look at it again. Access will be a right-in lane on Weltham Road and Crown Lane and in the rear of the site. Access will be a right-in lane on Weltham Road and Crown Lane and in the rear of the site. Careful consideration should be given as to whether the introduction of additional tractor-trailer traffic through these congested intersections to be appropriate. And again, there were some of the issues that were brought up by the Board of Supervisors at their meeting. Should the Board of Supervisors approve, find this use appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions be assigned to it. One, all reviewing agency comments and requirements comply with at all times. Two, a site-by-site review of the property, and three, a review of the property. A site plan should be submitted and approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of this use. This plan will meet the requirements of the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance as it relates to tractor-truck and truck-trailer parking. The parcels identified, number three, the parcel identified as 43-A-51, 43-2-B, and 43-3-E will be consolidated into one large property and will be consolidated into one large property. The parcels identified, number three, the parcel destination, and the parcel destination, as indicated in this section, should be the site-by-site review of the property. So, if the Board of Supervisors approves, then they'll have the authority to accommodate the 85 parking spaces when staff starts reviewing the conditional use permit, which other review agencies do review our conditional use permits before they are assigned by the Planning Department. Mr. Chairman, number four and five, what was added by the applicant after speaking with staff and after hearing the, some of the comments from the Board of Supervisors, one of them was, again, number four, only tractor-trucks and empty trailers shall be stored on this site. Number two, pick up and drop a truck in the area. Number two, pickup and drop off of any tractor, trailer, truck, or trailer shall be permitted between the hours of 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. And number six, any expansion or modification of the shoes require a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission held a public hearing at a December 15, 2021 meeting, and during the public hearing, they recommended a denial of this conditional use permit. Some of the reasons for that denial, again, were some of the opinions expressed by the Board. There was traffic issues, and that was the main issue, was the traffic issues. The Board of Supervisors held a public hearing at their January 12 meeting, 2022, and the public hearing was kept open, which is still open, as was asked. Staff is seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors on this proposed conditional use permit. For the record, I think Ron Slosky is here. He's representing the applicant, if he is. Also, to answer any of your transportation questions, far better than me would be Mr. Bishop, and he's here also. Mr. Chairman, I'll answer any questions that you may or you will have on this conditional use permit. Thank you. Questions of Mr. Chair and anyone? Supervisor McCarthy. A question for Mr. Bishop. Yes. Okay. Okay. Well, we'll swap back and forth, apparently. That's okay. Go ahead, Mr. Bishop. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Mr. Chairman, I just mentioned that VDOT still has yet to approve the entrances to this. Does it require approval for the – is VDOT's approval predicated on the use of this property? So, for instance, there's an entrance proposed off of Crown. There's also an entrance proposed off of Welltown Pike. Does that have to be approved by VDOT before this use would be allowed? The Crown entrance? The Crown entrance does not need approval because that's actually a private interparcel. It's on a private portion of Crown Lane. But, yes, Welltown would require VDOT approval. And specific to the use, yes, that will factor into VDOT's consideration of the proposed design. We don't know whether VDOT would require a right-turn lane in there or not, but is that something that's been proposed by the applicant, or is that still unknown as to whether or not that would be a – I'd be surprised if it's not. But, no, it's not fully determined yet. Other questions of Mr. Bishop while we have him? Mr. Supervisor Dunn. I just want to clarify. Mr. McCarthy talked about Welltown, but on Crown, it could be both an entrance in and an entrance out. It's not just an exit entrance. It's also a – they could enter in. Is that correct? That's my understanding. I would seek for Mr. Maslowski to correct me if I'm wrong on that since that's a private agreement between his client and Crown. My understanding would be there's – if you can confirm that, that would be fine. Thank you. Questions? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Slaughter. Just to confirm, Mr. Bishop, the Transportation Committee recently undertook a study in which the Welltown intersection was evaluated, Welltown to Route 11. Would you confirm or deny that the VDOT study determined that intersection to be a failing intersection? Yes, that remains a very challenged intersection, as you're well aware. I'm aware on a daily basis. Yes, I am, sir. I just want to make sure that everyone is aware. Thank you, sir. Other questions of Mr. Bishop? Anyone? One final question. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bishop, the changes to the application that have come to us in the last two weeks, for instance, the time frame for when trucks may or may not enter that facility, will that have any significant mitigating impact on these intersections? I would say yes, as I understand it. There were some concerns at the last board meeting. Particularly regarding contents of the vehicles. I think that's what resulted in the empty trailers could be only placed there. That doesn't necessarily impact the traffic for me too much. But the limitation to try and avoid the peak hour times should have a significant benefit, yes. Anyone else? Questions of Mr. Bishop? Supervisor Dunn. We had a conversation earlier today. So on the 6 to 8 a.m., if the 8 a.m. were moved back to 8.30, does that help to alleviate the issue? Morning rush hour? I think that would help you for sure, yes. And then in the evening, between 4 and 6, I think most people leave here at 5. But would there be any necessary to increase the 6 o'clock to a later point in time, in your professional opinion? I think that hits the worst times, if you will, in the evening, the 4 to 6, with the exception of when there's an incident. But yes. Therefore, in your opinion, you think... I wouldn't necessarily personally. I feel the need to push for an extension in the evening hours. Thank you. Other questions of Mr. Bishop? Anyone? I have one more. Supervisor Slaughter. Mr. Bishop, in the report that was in the board packet, again, it said that VDOT required additional study of the Welltown entrance. Why wasn't that done prior to this coming forward? Do you know? Frankly, it's a question for the applicant. It's a step they could have chosen to take. I'd be speculating why they didn't do it. It wasn't a requirement, which it isn't with CUPs. So, yes. Anyone else? Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Any further questions of Mr. Chair? Anyone? Thank you, Mr. Chair. Did anyone sign up? This is a public hearing, and it is continued from our last meeting. Yes. Yes, sir. And I will note that you did receive one electronic comment, and we have one person signed up, Deanne Kinney. Thank you. Mr. Muscovitz. Yeah. All right. Mr. Muscovitz, I'm sorry. Do you have anything you'd like to add? Yes, sir. I apologize. Yes. Good evening. I'm Ron Muscovitz with Pannoni, representing the owner of the property. So, at the last meeting, there were two, I left you with two questions. One. Was hazardous materials. The other was traffic. Could we restrict pickup and deliveries to be non, to happen during non-peak hours? We've worked that out. So, those two conditions have been added. Mr. Dunn had asked me about going to 830. We are flexible on that. Whatever VDOT or Mr. Bishop or the board decides is appropriate peak hour time in the morning, we'll certainly comply. We'll certainly comply with that. So, some other issues have been brought up here tonight, which I'd like to address, if I may. First, on the entrance. In order to apply for the conditional use permit, we're not required to have an approved entrance. We have not actually submitted an entrance plan. We have been working with VDOT for about two years, trying to figure out what kind of entrance we could get on Welltown Pike. VDOT has been adamant that the only thing we can possibly do is to have a permit for the use of the well town pike. We have not actually submitted an entrance plan. But, we are not necessarily a The next step would be a site plan and part of that site plan would be the commercial entrance on Welltown road. At that time, we would work with VDOT to satisfy whatever requirements that they might have for that entrance. Currently, on our concept plan, we do show a right turn lane on Welltown at a right turn lane. get any vehicles off the main through lane before they make the right in but again vdot may have changes to that plan they may want a median in the middle of welltown road i'm not i'm not sure but i know for a fact that a right in is all we can possibly get on welltown road they won't allow any other entrance they won't allow any other access to the site welltown road um i know that there are trip uh congestion issues in that area i i want to remind the board that the site is zoned m1 so by right there are a whole list of uh employment opportunities fast food restaurants are allowed in m1 um any by right use could easily generate more than a thousand trips a day and vdot would be required to give some sort of access to the site for that use um we estimate that under this use we're going to generate about 30 trips a day and it could be less depending on how long the trailers stay on the site but the worst case we were able to glean from other uses across the country was about about what the trailers usually sit on the site for about um for three days um so the other the other point um mr dunn and mr chair and also asked me a question about the use of the trailers for the site and i think that's a good question where would the Wait food when the trailer does close after the last meeting and at the final was offered to apply for a completely closed date inspired from a CL era hand99 the plan would be able to dating back in the activity last month and the idea of what other uses can that be this now com are still formed and ran this throughout the block of West Bay in theノ i think that we could really provide more specifics on the definition for this was a part of the plan that i presented on the Now i think if we had talked about it during the year part two um and they will use this site for their own trailer drop-off. And so they have full control over when the trailers get here, when they leave, when they get picked up, and what's in the trailers. So they are able to confidently proffer that the trailers will be empty and that there won't be any pickup or delivery during peak hours. And again, the forward at 6 in the afternoon is fine, and if it's the pleasure of the board to make it 6 to 8.30 in the morning, that's perfectly acceptable too. Whatever the parameters are, Patriot carriers will comply with that. I think I've tried to address all the questions, and I'd be happy to answer any other ones. You have some, I think. Supervisor McArthur. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Zlowski, I'm really concerned with Welltown Pike in particular, the traffic there. Even during the non-peak hours, with the fast food establishments that are there, the railroad tracks that are there, the traffic is bad regardless of the time. Route 11, granted, is busier during those peak times, but Welltown is always an issue. Would the applicant consider closing off Welltown as an entrance and only using Crown as an entrance and exit as part of this plan if that's what it takes to get this approved? Before I answer that, let me just, let me give you... my opinion on why that right-in entrance is a benefit to the transportation situation. If the carrier, if the truck is going to pick up a trailer in the Stonewall Industrial Park, and this is really the only reason why that right-in is there, if they're bringing this trailer and they want to drop it off in this facility, if there is not a right-in in Welltown, then they have to go down to Route 11, they have to make a right, go down Route 11, and come in Crown Lane. So you're actually adding a trip to the intersection, that Chairman Slaughter just mentioned was very congested, that didn't have to be there if we have a right-in. Now the truck may come in, drop off the trailer, but he can't go back out on Welltown, he's got to go out on Crown Lane. So the only time that right-in will be used is when they're picking up trailers that they're dropping off from Stonewall Industrial Park. Yeah, I hear your... So actually it's trying to keep traffic off of Route 11 that doesn't have to be there. So you'd mentioned that... Patriot carriers would... This is being done for Patriot carriers, but if we pass a CUP, the CUP is not specific to who the carrier is or who may be contracting with the applicant. I'd be more than willing to make an amendment to add a condition that it will only be used by Patriot carriers. And is there any way to... So do you know, off the top of your head, is Patriot carriers picking up trailers and Stonewall Industrial Park and then needing to drop them off into this? They could pick up trailers from anywhere, but they do pick up trailers and drop off trailers. They don't pick up trailers at Stonewall Industrial Park. Do you have any idea where the majority of those trailers are coming from? Not at this time. Or would the majority of those trailers be coming from Stonewall Industrial Park or no? I can't answer that question. I don't... I can't answer the question. I don't know. From my perspective, I'm very concerned with the Welltown Pike issue. I appreciate your argument in favor of the right turn lane. I see that there's more danger in keeping that as an open issue. But I do appreciate your explanation. So to answer my first question, would the applicant be open to closing off the entrance onto Welltown if that's what it took in order to get to the CUP? Or do you need to go back to your applicant and ask them that question? I'm going to have to say yes because we'd like to get approval. But I'd... Yes. The answer is yes. We would figure out a way to deal with that if... And only use the crowd lane entrance if that was the pleasure of the board. I appreciate that. Thank you, Mr. Roslowski. Other questions of Mr. Moskovsky? I have one. Thank you, sir, for coming back and giving clarification to some previous questions. In your response to Supervisor McCarthy, you just implicated that some of those trailers may be loaded coming into that facility to swap trailers. Is that the case? Although... All the trailers in that facility are going to be empty. Excellent. Thank you so much. Anyone else? One further question. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Mr. Moskovsky. You had raised the question that someone had asked you, how would you enforce these conditions? Would the facility be gating the entrance closed during those hours? Or is it simply a policy that we tell Patriot carriers not to come in between those hours? Or would there be a physical barrier? It is restricted. Yes. It is restricted. Thanks. Other questions? Anyone? Supervisor Dunn. So in a conversation with another supervisor here, one of the issues concerned was the truck driver gets onto Google Maps and says, off of 81, make a right-hand turn onto Welltown, make a left-hand turn into the entrance. Is there a way to address that so that that does not occur? There's only going to be one carrier, so they have all their employees will know how to get to this site. Okay. We will also seek to work with County GIS to address it off Crown Lane. So the address for this facility will be whatever address is applicable off of Crown Lane. So I'm hoping that will give them directions through Crown Lane. And therefore, if that occurred, for those trucks that went up to Stonewall to pick up or deliver and then came down, in your opinion, it would be easier to simply make a right-hand turn off of Welltown into your facility, as opposed to continuing on down. So that's the first thing that we're going to do. And then the second thing is that we're going to make sure that the truck driver gets onto Route 11, because now you've taken that truck off. And otherwise, that truck would still be on Route 11 or on Welltown until they made the right-hand turn. Is that correct? Yes. But I understand that. Yes. Thank you. Supervisor McCarthy has a different opinion, but yes, Supervisor Dunn, that's correct. We're not putting you in the middle. We're just, you're answering questions, which we appreciate. Thank you. Got it. Other questions of Mr. Muscovsky? Supervisor Wells. If you would. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm very familiar with the area out there. I'm glad to hear it's just a sole one truck company, and you're going to have a gated facility. Traffic is a mess, and there are several other locations. Well, I live in Stephen City, so that's one of them. And it is what it is. You can do the best you can. It is a piece of property, and I agree with you that it's other, there's other uses that would create a lot more traffic. It might not be truck traffic. It's truck traffic, but it's going to be traffic. I think with the conditions that you put forward, and I still like the idea of the turn lane coming off of Welltown. I think that eliminates a traffic problem rather than swinging around and coming back. That's just my personal opinion. Other questions? Anyone? Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Now we can go back to the public hearing. We didn't have anyone sign up. Yes, sir. Yes, we did. We did. Okay. Deanne, Kenny. I thought I asked that question. You did. Welcome. Deanne, Kenny, and in Gainsborough District. And I'm back again because you all have had your questions answered, but I haven't had mine answered. And they have said, okay, we're going to make it that there are empty trailers being stored there. But there's nobody going to be watching to know whether they're going to be able to get their job done. And I know that Patriot Carrier says that they're only going to allow them to be empty trailers, but those truck drivers do what truck drivers do, and they got to do what they got to do to get their job done. The other thing is, is the hours that they're going to do it. Eighty-five trucks can park in there. And eighty-five trucks will probably fill that place up. And every three days, he said, that they're going to be moving those trailers. They usually are there about every three days. Right. And they're going to be there about every three days. So, if you limit it from six until eight, and from four until six, that leaves those hours in between that all those trucks are going to be on that road. Going out on Route 11, going out on Welltown Pike, not on Welltown Pike, but some of them will be if they're coming from Stonewall Industrial Park. They're not going to shut it down and lock it down that you can't get in from six to eight and from four to six. I know they say that they will because that's that word intended, again, that they're going to intend to do that. But truck drivers do what truck drivers have to do. And I know that because in the second entrance that comes out of Stonewall Industrial Park, you're not allowed to make a left-hand turn to go to Rest Church, to go to the Flying J, and to get on 81 down there to miss that mess down there at Route 11 at the end of Welltown Pike. But they do. They're not supposed to. It's posted. But you know what they know? Nobody's watching. There has not been one truck ever that's been pulled over. Pulled over and ticketed right there coming out of that Stonewall Industrial Park going in that direction. So nobody's watching. And I'm sorry that, yes, there are a lot of things they can put there. Put another fast food restaurant if you think that's going to go there. But more truck traffic. As I said before, it's not just Welltown. It's not just Route 11. And it's not just Stonewall Industrial Park. Fort Collier, when those trucks leave out of there, guess where they're going? Route 11. They're going to be merging on to where 37 joins into it, coming down to that mess at the end of Welltown Pike to get on 81. There's all those trucks. There's all the people that work and live in West Virginia. And they're going to make their way back home coming down Route 11 and trying to get on 81 or 11 and hoping there's not an accident. I hope that you all truly think hard and long before you agree to let them put this trailer park in there. But thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Any one else, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. All right. Is there anyone else who would like to speak concerning this conditional use application? Anyone at all? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing. This is Gainsborough. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I would move for denial of the CUP. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. This is an issue of, I think this is more than just an annoyance nuisance traffic issue. This is a public safety issue that we have to address. The traffic at that Gainsborough, Stonewall, Magisterial District confluence there is a total nightmare. I'm glad that we had the opportunity last week to meet with Planning to start discussing some options to address it. But until we do that, I don't want to do anything. I don't want to take any affirmative steps to increase the traffic, especially on Welltown. I'm open to the idea of looking at alternatives to enter and use that property, but I don't want us to be adding any more truck traffic than we need to because it's a safety issue and because of the traffic that's already there. Yes, there are by right uses and they can do that and we may end up in an even bigger mess down the road, but I think we need to, as a board, to start addressing this situation sooner than later. I'm not going to get a handle on this so that we don't have this issue in the future, but I'm not ready to vote to give a special use that would include putting heavy traffic on those roads. Thank you, sir. Is there a motion and a second? Discussion? Supervisor? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So this alludes to a much bigger issue, and the bigger issue is this. We have transportation issues all over this county. This is just one shining example of it. Stephen City is another example and there are many, many more. I don't think that we have a lot of traffic issues in this county. I think that we have a lot of traffic issues in this county. I think that we have a lot of traffic issues in this county. I don't believe that 85 additional trucks is going to make or break that intersection. It is a failing intersection already. It appears that the applicant has done all due diligence that he can do to try to get this as palatable as they can make it and make it a usable piece of property. I fear that if we deny this request, we may very well get a beast or a different animal that is far uglier than what we are considering today. Right. If you get 30 or 35 trips out of there a day, which has been what we have discussed, 30 or 35 trips is significantly less than most businesses would generate. One other item that was notated here in the discussion was the trailers would be empty. Anyone who is in the trucking industry would know that a loaded truck versus an unloaded truck is going to cost vastly different means egress. A loaded truck is going to be slower to bring. It is made work. There is no need to buy. Would it impede transportation? slow to get up to speed, hard to stop, and many other things. An empty truck is much easier to stop, much easier to get up to speed, and has a lot less impact into the community. While I don't like this per se use of the property, I believe that it could be a much more beneficial use than what we could see next year, next month, next week. So for that purpose, I will not support the motion as presented. Thank you. My concerns on the motion by Mr. McCarthy were that if you have a fast food, etc., you could have 1,000 trips per day versus the 30 to 35. So it's not a great situation between one and the other. It's a situation between two lesser evils. You still have truck traffic at Stonewall that comes down. It has to go someplace. So I don't see that traffic being removed. So I'll oppose your motion. Your intent is good. But I just think this is a better situation than could be there. Mr. McCarthy. To both of these supervisors' comments, I would just point out that if this was a rezoning and we were changing the use from its current use to a totally different use, I might see some merit in what you're talking about. But by allowing the CUP, we're not saying that they couldn't still put fast food in there. So this is not a trend. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Graber. If I may, I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm going to ask you a question. I greatly appreciate your comments, Supervisor McCarthy, and I think they're very valid. What we do know is this is a use that they would like to use a property with at this time. And it may delay the inevitable of a fast food restaurant or whatever else may come in five years down the road. And hopefully by that time, we've been productive in improving the transportation needs in that area to be able to handle the traffic of a fast food restaurant or of other high traffic type of business should they desire to come in. So I think there's valid points to be seen on both sides of that issue. Thank you. I just want to make just one final point on this, is that you say this could hold it off. Well, there's no impending fast food restaurant going in there. Otherwise, that might be the more financially desirable use of this property. So my point is, you mentioned, you know, 15, 20 vehicles a day is not going to break a broken system. Well, the straw, there's eventually a straw that's going to break the camel's back. And I don't see any reason to add the straw now if we don't have to before we have a chance to fix the camel's back. So that's the reason why I'm supporting this motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Comments? Well, I have to. I cannot imagine adding truck traffic to that intersection when we have a choice. It's unimaginable to me. So I support your motion. Are we ready? Supervisor Ludwig. The motion is to deny. The motion is to deny. Okay. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Nay. Supervisor Graber. No. Chair votes aye. Motion is carried and the CUP is denied. All right. That will bring us to board liaison reports. Are there any? Hearing none. Citizen comments on any issue that you might bring before the board? Did anyone sign up? Yes, sir. We have quite a number. Kevin Callahan. Welcome, sir. Thank you. You know the drill. Magistral district name, please. I think I do. Thank you so much. My name is Kevin Callahan. I live in the Shawnee district. I just wanted to share two points before I get into my very short presentation, which is that I understand the numbers you're going to see in a second are global numbers for our school budget. It's federal, state, and local revenue, but what is true for the greater is true for the smaller, and the smaller is true for the larger. So, we're going to have a discussion about that. And the second issue, I also understand we are very early in the budget process, but I thought this would be important information to share with this board so that as you're having conversations with the school board, that hopefully if these numbers are true and you validate them, then you can use them as a reference point. So, I have distributed to each of you a review of the past approved school budgets and associated student enrollment over the last decade. In my mind, we have a... I'm going to start with the student enrollment. If you have a student enrollment budget, it's a significant problem with a budget out of control. If you look at the budget and the student enrollment, you'll see that while our student body has grown at a rate, an anemic rate of one half of 1% per annum, our budget has grown by over 5.1% per annum. So, in other words, we have a tenfold increase in the budget compared to the increase in students. To break that down, we have about 712 students. We have 112 students more than we did in 2011 or 2012. That means an average of 37 new students per year for the entire school system, or three new students per school per year. But we are spending now, from all sources, not just our county, but all sources, $80 million more a year. In other words, we've had a... 5.4% growth in student body over that decade, which is a good, considerate normal growth. We've had a 51.3% growth in the budget. In 2012, when my daughter was a fifth grader, I think, it cost $11,838.14 to educate her for a year. If my son was here next year as a senior at Sharando, which he will be, go watch that video. I'm not going to do that. I'm going to give you a little bit of time. Go Warriors. It will cost $19,000 per student. That's a lot of inflation. We have also spent over $114 million in new construction costing each taxpayer an additional $3,500. Any business that would increase their cost by 5% each year while their revenue only grew by half a percent wouldn't be in business much longer. I'm requesting that this board or the school board... And this presentation will be made to the school board as well. I'm requesting someone engage in external audit with accounting and personnel professionals and community members within our community and identify the reasons for this out of balance growth in the cost of education versus the number of students that we're educating. Thank you so very much. Thank you, sir. Della DeHaven. Welcome. Just pull the microphone down for you. You should pull it down. Yeah. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Name, magisterial district. Thank you. Limit your comments to... My name is Della DeHaven. I live in the Gainsborough District. And the grandchildren that I'm going to refer to live in the Stonewall District. We want to thank you. Thank you so much. We appreciate you. My supervisor is Doug McCarthy. And I want to thank you for listening to me and all of the others. You referred to when you talked today about the private educational funding research. And now this has been discussed earlier. And so my point to support it is somewhat later than the fact. But still it remains that funding this research for families who would like to have an opportunity to send their children to other schools, whether it's homeschooling, private schools, and such. This is something that we have. longed for for a very long time. What made this very evident and a blessing if you could call it that to emerge from COVID and the lockdowns is that parents became more interested in what was happening with their children in the schools, with their education, with their learning abilities, with the emotional stress that was upon them. Our grands are five and seven and we have friends of course they have children of all ages, it's hard for teenagers, it's hard for adults to understand what is happening in the educational community and again Doug I want to thank you for listening to me and other people who have voiced this opinion and have carried it forward and are interested in what the board has agreed with research into these opportunities. The public schools have provided very important service to communities for over a hundred years but local communities have had less and less influence on the education of their children. They have had a great impact on their lives and the over how the schools have operated what is being taught and what values are being impressed when our children and grandchildren I don't know about you but let me tell you I when I hear my grand say Gigi when are we going to have a perfect life again now that's not something you're going to say you're never gonna it's not ever going to be the same so we're we're making the best we can out of those lemons of course but when you're seven years old you're not understanding everything around you you're understanding the emotions and what is being poured into them into the children so public schools have become more and more controlled from the top with federal and state government levels and schools have become less reflective of the values of the local community for those of you who know me I am everything local and there are probably a lot of you out there that don't know me I'm here to talk to you about the issues that are affecting our children and I'm sure you know that there are probably people here that see my post we love the schools our children love attending Stonewall thank you so much say that again we our son grew up in the Gainsborough district and we're natives there and we love we love Gainsborough and thank you Doug again I'll wrap this up many children are no longer being taught the critical thinking of love of country love of neighbors and respect for authority we're seeing this so we teach it at home and we can communicate with them and we can say we want to be a part of the community and we'd like to have the opportunity to have them schooled and have an alternate so that those values can really resonate through our community through the children so with the recent difficulties and we've all seen them at the school board we've all seen the issues that come along explaining these things to our children would be easier if they had that consistent education and consistent time to be schooled where the family agreed I appreciate the opportunity. Again, thank you, Doug. Thank you, Ms. Judith. And we're glad to be residents in Frederick County, Virginia. Thank you so much. Thank you. Scott Fink. Welcome, sir. You're going to have to raise it up. Just a little bit. Well done. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, Board of Council. As many of you know, I'm on the Town Council for Middletown. I just want to come here and speak briefly. As you know, we've been discussing quite a bit about the boundary line adjustment. Mr. Graber, thank you. Mr. Wells, thank you for coming before our meeting. We have not, to this date, had any citizens or businesses have any objections to moving forward. This is obviously a very big decision on behalf of Frederick County and Middletown. I want to thank the partners that came to meet with us Thursday night. In our meeting, H&M Fonkhauser, Akins Group, Molden, Schaefer's, all of these organizations have become a part of Middletown, if you will. And we hope moving forward and meeting with you guys and in the near future, we hope to have them a part of Middletown for various reasons. And we'll sit down and discuss that. And we look forward to talking with you. I don't have anything further other than that. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you. David Brathwaite. Welcome, sir. Thank you, sir. Honorable members of the board, I'm David T. Brathwaite, Jr. I am a resident of Gainesburg District. I come before you seeking assistance. On January 20th, the Frederick County School Board decided to ignore the duly elected governor's executive order, which I will read to you in a minute. In his executive order, the return of the rights that were stripped from parents under the previous governor. Considering that this community overwhelmingly voted for the governor, it came as a shock that our school board would deny his authority. Parents such as myself felt compelled to take action to right this wrong. We knew the school board was broken. Honestly, we were naive. In the last two weeks, we've seen school board members, well, one school board member, and the superintendent of schools publicly evade a process server. We have seen our children locked away from other students. We've been made aware of comments by the at-large school board member stating that he often tunes out parents who don't approach the lectern with body language that he approves of or fails to address him in a manner that he feels entitled to. We're now seeing conflicts with the superintendent bringing in employees of a company that he sits on the board of and presenting them as unbiased experts. There are questions arising from the sale of the old Frederick County Middle School to a company that has a relationship with Valley Health, yet our school board decries overcrowding issues. This county has splendid-looking schools. If only the quality of the education matched these buildings. As a whole, the quality of education is declining under the superintendent. If the math holds true, his budget will come to over $19,000 per student. Yet we are not getting the education of our students for this expense. This community should not expect that our children's education should be lacking. We shouldn't be silent when the school board members or the superintendent flout the authority of the governor or the Frederick County Circuit Court. These people are not capable of instilling the core values, honesty, integrity, and accountability into our students as they do not demonstrate it themselves on a daily basis. In coming years, these students in our schools will mature and take their place in the community as adults. We don't need poorly educated adults that will decide what rules they wish to follow and then ignore the rest. It will tear at the very fabric of this community. I'm not sure that the board has much authority in this matter. I'm not sure that the board has much authority in this matter. However, you do control the almighty purse strings. The purse that pays Dr. Savine over $240,000 a year. I'm asking that you pump the brakes on his agenda and the lawless superintendent by denial of funds so we can sort this mess out. Thank you. Thank you, sir. David Sparkman. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. David Sparkman, Redbud District. Can you put that in for 30 minutes? No, sir. Dr. Welcome. Dr. Okay. You're wasting your time. Dr. We'll keep it kinda short. Three different things. Okay, first of all, broken windows. This is what Giuliani's policing, uh, concert was for. This is what Giuliani's policing, uh, concert was for. And that is the reason why we're all in this conference right now, but we're not part of the same party. Okay. Uh, let me make one comment, because it's pretty interesting. We, we're all in the same room. We've all been in the same office. We've all been in the same room. Giuliani's policing doctrine was we do not ignore broken windows. When we have a problem with discipline with a kid, our school systems are glossing over this thing. And we get a kid who really is troubled and has problems, and we pretend like, oh, well, that's just normal. And the kid goes and gets a gun and starts shooting everybody up because we did not pay attention to that broken window. Point two, as a taxpayer, my taxes went up 12% this last time it went up. 1% for what you put on us, which I can understand 1 cent per that, but the housing evaluation went up way up. And so I get stuck with more bills. Now, the cost is mostly in this county going to the school system. I have a proposal for you to consider. I can't make this happen. But my proposal basically is that we start a charter school in this county. And before you say, wow, that's a big change, no. We have Dow J. Howard building, which is qualified. It's quite underutilized. We have some nursing and some construction trades and mechanical trades in that building. But we have a lot of classrooms in that building that are not being used. While you investigate, as Supervisor McCarthy said, while you investigate other possibilities for education, I would ask you to also investigate the possibility of taking Dow J. Howard and changing it. And so I'm going to look at that into a charter school. And I believe, from what I'm hearing, that all the private schools are booked up, completely full. Homeschooling is at 7.5%, the highest it's ever been in our county. I think if you open a charter school, it'd be filled, just like that. Because people would want something that is not strictly controlled by the school board. A charter school is going to be a charter school. It's going to be a charter school. And most charter schools are filled with minorities. A lot of Hispanic people go to those things because they get a better education. They don't get the indoctrination. They don't have this broken windows problem where a kid backs up in school and the teacher can't teach because of disruption in the classroom. So let's try a charter school as well as the other suggestions of Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you, sir. Gail Ferreira. 30 minutes later on. Welcome. I'm Gail Ferreira from Shawnee District. Thank you, Josh Ludwig, for being my excellent supervisor and to the board tonight. I'd like to talk a little bit about school choice. School choice is any policy that allows families to take their children's education dollars to the approved education provider of their choosing, be it the traditional public schools, public magnet and charter schools, private school, virtual learning, or homeschooling. Research shows that school choice programs improve outcomes for all students, reduces crime, helps students graduate high school and enroll in college. School choice works through voucher programs, educational savings, scholarship tax credit, individual tuition tax credits, and charter schools. One of my heroes and role models that I learned about in college some time ago is Thomas Sowell, a Chicago economist that turned 90 this past June 30th. He qualified for attending at Stuyvesant High School, a public magnet high school, very prestigious academic high school in New York City. And he went on to graduate from Harvard University, magna cum laude, and a master's degree in economics. So he's a great student. He's a great student. He's a great student. He's a great student. He's a great student. He's a great student. He's a great student. He's a great student. He's a great student. He's a great student. And in 1959, and then on to a master's degree from Columbia University. He says that U.S. schools are failing children and contends that indoctrination has taken the place of proper education and that schools have become monopolies for educational bureaucracies. Based on the superintendent's 268.8 million dollar budget for next year, our tax dollars are spending 19,000 per student. As I mentioned before, from some of my peers here in the Frederick County Public Schools. As of January 31st, there are 13,996 students enrolled. And Savine is proposing hiring 52 new staff mentors and building up the infrastructure for the overloaded schools. So that begs the question, is the taxpayer getting the most bang for the buck? Considering what is going on in our school system and what I'm witnessing about mandated math, critical race theory, books with pornographic material found on the library shelves, I don't think so. If the parents have school choice, this could significantly save the taxpayer money, costing parents much less, like $6,000 per student. The case for school choice is overwhelming. The vast majority of credible evidence shows that school choice programs improve academic outcomes for not only the program participants, but also the students in public schools, saving the taxpayers money and reducing racial segregation. Therefore, I am encouraging you all to be a proponent and vote for school choice here in Frederick County. Thank you very much. Thank you. Christie Scarborough. Welcome. Hello, members of the board. I'm Christine Scarborough. I'm the director of the school board. I'm the director of the school board. I'm the head of the board. My name is Christie Scarborough, and I am in the Stonewall district. I am here to talk about Frederick County Public Schools and Frederick County School Board's lawlessness by voting noncompliance of a governor's executive order and utter disregard for students with disabilities, religious beliefs, and medical status. Frederick County Public Schools has forced my learning-disabled child into segregation, for a total of two years. Why? Because he can't wear a face covering due to his sensory issues, which are related to his disabilities. I will not tolerate Frederick County Public Schools segregating my child simply due to his disability status. I have had enough and my son is suffering by only being offered a short number of hours through Virtual Virginia. To call it bottom of the barrel, I am here to thank the school board for their support. Thank you. Thank you. bottom of the barrel education would be an understatement. Segregating my son violates the ADA because they are failing to provide my child an equal opportunity to benefit from the program, and that program is an education. Frederick County Public Schools has not accepted one exemption from face coverings throughout all of Frederick County. They have denied every single exemption from religious beliefs to disability status and to medical status. I have provided an actual doctor's note that exempts my child from face coverings. The response that I got was that I am required to sign away my son's right to medical privacy so that my son's principal can speak to my son's doctor and exchange documents without me present. Frederick County Public Schools has no right to require parents to sign away their child's medical privacy, simply because they want an attempt to manipulate these doctors to change their minds. Now, there is one obvious exemption that I can see Frederick County Public Schools actively allows for mask-free students. Not all, but very plenty of sports and band members. What a slap in the face to see photos published of Frederick County Public Schools' social media pages where these kids are mask-free, and they're not even required to wear masks. And that's why the Army has been working on this for over a decade. And it's not just the United States, inside of the building, and within close contact to one another. Highly illogical to tell me that they somehow couldn't catch COVID. So this is okay to Frederick County Public Schools, but allowing a child who is medically exempt from face coverings is an absolute no. I am here because Frederick County Public Schools relies on you to fund them, and I ask that you consider cutting their funding in any way you see fit until Frederick County Public Schools starts giving all students a fair and equal education. I urge you get involved with this matter because the members of this community need you more than ever. We do not co-parent with Frederick County Public Schools or the four tyrants on the school board who voted for mandatory masks. Thank you very much. Matt Schaefer. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Matthew Schaefer, and I own Schaefer's Barbecue and Market, which is currently located in the south end of Frederick County, just south of Middletown. And I'm here to advocate on behalf of the Friendly Boundary Line Adjustment for my particular piece of property. It's about one acre. I own the building and the property, and we've been in business about five and a half years. During that time, there's been a longstanding saga for sewer connection, which Mr. DeHaven and... Some of the longstanding board members here may be familiar, which has not yet been resolved. So a friendly... There is no sewer water service swaza area in that part of the county. I'm the last piece of property before the National Park. So I've been entering discussions for the last five years between Frederick Water Middletown and myself to establish a sewer lateral onto a Middletown sewer line. So those... If I were allowed to come into Middletown, that process would be streamlined, would be quicker, and would come at a far significant cost to my small business than if I remain sort of an apostrophe out there in Frederick County as the last piece of business property to the south end. So my request is, as you guys begin to discuss the options, and there's multiple parcels and obviously a lot of details that goes into this, but my request is that you consider for my piece of property a friendly boundary line adjustment so that my business could enjoy a sewer connection at a significantly reduced cost, and also so that my business could join the community that I serve and whose citizens are the majority of my customers. So thank you. Thank you, sir. Justin Edens. Welcome, sir. Good evening. My name's Justin Edens. I'm from the Stonewall District, and I'm here tonight to discuss an ongoing issue in our county. My daughter is a first grader at Stonewall Elementary School. After the governor's order, Executive Order No. 2, came out, she was so excited to be able to go to school mask-free. Then the school board did something. I never thought they would do in a county that voted 70% for the current governor and blatantly disregarded the executive order. Needless to say, she was crushed yet again. You see, in August of 2021, this happened once before. But that time, the school board had voted to make masks optional, and the governor sent out a health order making them mandatory. When she heard that they were going to be mandatory, she said, I thought this was a free country. This is a free country. This doesn't feel like freedom to me. I comforted her and told her this is not freedom. This is tyranny. On Monday, January 25th, we gave our daughter a choice, the option of going with the governor's executive order and going without a mask or wearing a mask as mandated by the school board. We explained to her what would probably be happening. She'd be segregated and possibly sent home. But we would back her no matter what she chose. She chose to go mask-free. I had numerous conversations with the principal throughout the day, and he updated me on what was happening. She was segregated from other classmates the whole day, even for lunch, in which none of the kids wear a mask anyhow. But one of the most disturbing things that I saw personally is when I picked her up from basic rec. Basic rec, of course, run by the Parks and Recreation, when I went to pick her up, I saw all three of the counselors that were there with their masks down around their neck. I saw all the kids in there playing basketball, no masks on, but my daughter was segregated. One of the counselors had to go get my daughter, and when she came out, she came running to me. She jumped to my arm. She said, Daddy, I did it. I did it. Why are kids being segregated for not wearing masks when kids are playing without masks all the time? I know basic rec has to follow certain guidelines set forth by the schools, but a little common sense goes a long way. I am asking you tonight to look at ways to remedy what is going on at our schools and our Parks and Rec department. My daughter should not be treated like a leper when she chooses to follow the laws set forth by the governor. I don't know what has to happen, whether funding needs to be withheld until they can follow the rule of law or what. What is this situation teaching our kids, that you only have to follow the rules when it suits you? With the school board's proposed budget of $19,000 per student, I feel transparency needs to be out there. For that money, my child could go to a much better school that provides a much better education. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I'm having trouble reading this name. It looks like Michael from the Opecan District. Maybe. I'm having trouble reading it. That could be. Hi, everyone. Mia Usmani from Opecan District. Just pull the microphone down. There you go. I always get so worried about this thing. Hello, Mr. Wells. You're my guy. So, so much is going on between the school district and over here tonight, it seems like. But I do want to say I'd like to keep my money in the public school district. As a person that also moved to this area two decades ago, I did go to and put my kids into a military school. And if you do go private and go military, those dry cleaning bills, you can buy a car with it by the time they graduate. I swear, never knew that. I'd like to keep my money in the public schools. And whatever you can do for choice, I'd like to see that too. I'm here for annexation, though. And that has to do, please give Mr. Schaefer what he needs. He has great barbecue. For our side, though, it almost looks like you're taking the whole stretch from Middletown to Stephen City, and you're going to be annexing that because it seems like there's a lot of property on that side that seems to be up for annexation. I know there is the 301-acre, what do you call that, development site going up along that area also. There is so much traffic right there that I'm getting very worried about. I mentioned it before because every time 81 has an accident, you know 11 is it. That one light, terrible there. What are we doing about infrastructure? That little parcel that I'm talking about, the 20 acres that Sheetz is going to go into, again, I'd like to have a Sheetz there, but not a truck stop, not 50 trucks there. It is so close to the exit of 81. There is no gift there. It's all right there. Would really like to keep that in Frederick County. Sheetz is going to be giving $300,000 and then another $300,000. So it was like $600,000. They were going to give to Charles, I guess, for Middletown. $600,000 for Frederick County sounds pretty good for the school system. Anyway, thank you very much. Have a good night. John Rohrbaugh. John Rohrbaugh. Welcome, sir. You'll need to pull that mic up, sir. There you go. All done. Thank you. I'm here to speak on the annexation proposed by Middletown, primarily the east of exit 302 where the Sheetz is proposed to go. I live in the Kendall Mill subdivision. I built down at that end of the county. I've lived in Frederick County for 37 years, Steven City for 25, built a home down at Kendall Estates, because I wanted to get more rural. My house sits up on a little hill, and there's a front porch, and I look out, I see the trees, the mountains, the farmland. Now if the annexation goes through and the Sheetz is approved, when I go out on my front porch, I'm going to see a truck stop. I'm going to hear trucks idling. I'm going to see the air quality change, because we have 50 yards of air in the city, and I'm going to see the air quality change, because we have 50 yards of air in the city, trucks and I don't know how many cars into this sheet. Mia mentioned the traffic. There's not a lot of room turning off of 81 to get in there on North Buckhorn or Reliance. I'm not sure which way they would come in. Probably both ways. But I would really ask the board to think long and hard about annexing east of exit 302. And I guess the gentleman from town council said that nobody opposed it. Well he said the businesses and individuals haven't opposed it. Well there are individuals that do oppose it. He just needs to check with the people east of exit 302. And that's all I have to say. Thank you very much for your time. Josh Phillips. Welcome sir. Good evening. Josh Phelps, Gainesboro District. I want to thank you guys for giving me a few minutes tonight. I kind of wanted to echo some of the thoughts about school choice. I'm here to express support for that as an option for the residents of Frederick County. Over the past two years I think what's come to the forefront is that we might want to question whether or not the government is always the best choice to deliver some such services to our communities at large. It's not reasonable to think that for a county of over a hundred thousand people that some of the citizens might want a different option for their children's education. As taxpayers we don't really have a say in that. Every couple years of the ballot box we might be able to make a little adjustment here and there but really we don't have a lot of say. I don't know what the perfect solution is but it's a discussion we're starting and I thank you guys for bringing that up tonight and hopefully opening up that dialogue. I don't think anyone is interested in ending funding for public school systems. I don't know I'm hearing anyone talk about that but what I do think is that maybe there's some competition out there and it would be a lot easier to have better competition if it was more affordable to more people. The result of that would be better outcomes for the students and that's really ultimately what we're after. As someone pointed out earlier those students become our future citizens, our future workforce and I want them to be the best result that they possibly can. If a different system than the public system is what works for that student then it ought to be an option for them. Also if students aren't in the public school system it's less wear and tear on the school system. It's less bodies in the schools. It's less people on the buses. It's less classroom crowding. It could be less teachers needed. So this idea that if we have less of them it's going to be a hurt to the school system I don't think is true. I think there's a there's a different way to look at that. One thing I want to remember is that our founders designed our government to be slow and deliberate. They knew that the people were always the way they're always the answer. Always the way that things are going to get done. But unfortunately with education somewhere along the way we forgot that. We ceded our money and methods our future citizens to a government entity and didn't have any really readily available alternatives. Unfortunately that's still true today. A one-size-fits-all approach is rarely if ever the answer to just about any solution but unfortunately it's the only way the government can respond. In a lot of cases where a scalpel might be needed all the government has is a sledgehammer and they use it quite well. No two people learn the same way and parents need to be feel empowered about their children's education not trapped. I urge the board to consider being the first in the state to propose an approach that will be more effective and more effective than the average school district decision making. I urge any of you who are in the same lane to make that impact on the people in your constituents. This section of the board is for all families out judgement in the primary four as we were hearing last week and as we all also talked about in 2004 and as we are even about to hungry for information. What we definitely do as bodies of people is to we have our own plan where and whatever solutions one should have into that conversation so that we will be able to apply that to school choice for parents. Good evening. My name is Laura Jarrell. I'm a resident of the Opecan District. We moved here seven years ago in time for my oldest to start kindergarten at Bass Hoover. Now he's in seventh grade at Aylor, and my two youngest are in third and fourth grade at Bass Hoover. We love it here, and we love the schools. I went to four elementary schools when I was young, and that was really tough. I didn't have solid elementary school friendships to build upon in my middle and high school years. Here's an example of the positive that that can bring. My daughter, Nora, who is eight and in the third grade, was really upset Monday morning about her fish, Barry. He wasn't looking well, and she cried all morning, and we had lots of conversations about it. She went to school, and when I came home from work, I asked her how her day was, and she said, you know what? I talked with some of my most trusted friends at school today about Barry. Those were her words, her most trusted friends. This is why we decided to commit to this area, so that our kids could have the experience of starting kindergarten, making friends, and then graduating from high school with those same friends. We love it here, and the schools are amazing, so why am I sharing this? I'm sharing this because I've seen some behavior in this county that is of great concern to me. This board seems to have honed in on the schools with some undeserved, harsh criticism, so much so that we have a supervisor who has threatened to recommend funding cuts over the decision the school board has made on masks. I don't care what your problem is. I don't care what your problem is. I don't care what your view is on masks. Recommending funding cuts based on the decision that a school board makes that they feel is in the best interest of their students is inexcusable. The school board's job is to do what is in the best interest of the students, and to threaten funding cuts that would only harm the students our schools serve is mean, vindictive, and frankly, manipulative. Another supervisor and his wife, sat in front of me at the last school board meeting, and were incredibly disrespectful. They interrupted speakers during public comment and shouted at board members, I don't allow my children to behave this way. I'm embarrassed to live in a county where not only adults, but elected officials are behaving this way. In addition, the supervisor's wife had printed out pictures of a school board member's children and was passing them around at the special school board meeting on January 20th. Using someone's children as bait is reprehensible. It doesn't matter what your political or personal opinions are. All people deserve to be treated with respect. We need leaders in this county who can do that. You need to do better. Thank you. That's right. Monica Williams. Welcome. Welcome. Thank you. I'm Monica Williams. I'm in the Opecan District, and I'm here to speak about annexation. So I'm a resident of Frederick County, and we live in the Middletown zip code, not Middletown. And I hope I'm not here to waste my breath on a discussion issue that may already be a done deal, and I don't think it is. Twelve years ago, the town of Middletown expressed its opinion that the city should be a place where people can live, and that's what I'm here for. In fact, I'm here to speak about the land use plan, and that's what I'm here to speak about this year. The land use plan was introduced in the mid-1990s as part of the mid-1990s, and the city of Middletown was interested in incorporating 250 acres on the east side of I-81. At that time, there was a vision of a technology park, and Middletown wanted to provide sewer and water. There was a study, a steering committee, public hearings, et cetera, and a 2014 amendment to the Reliance Road area land use plan, sewer and water service area was drawn up. We refer to that as Stephen City 2. The Board of Supervisors, in approving the plan, was very pleased with the results. In approving this update, expressly stated that the Frederick County Sanitation Authority will be the party responsible for providing water and sewer in this area. I would like to note that none of the recommended transportation improvements that are recommended in this plan have been initiated. Middletown has come knocking again. 20 acres here, 250 acres there, and apparently has the ear of some people on the Board. And I think that's what we're going to do. And one was stated publicly that they just don't have the stomach to deal with the monster that they created. My question to the Board is, and those of we have given the opportunity to represent the citizens of Frederick County, is your plan to leave us high and dry because you don't want to deal with the development that this county has approved? I think it's dismissive and offensive. And I hope that all of you will take to heart the words of the people on this. Thank you. I would like to say that we are on the east side of 302, when we say we do not want the development of this area that directly affects us managed by a town that would lead us powerless. Thank you. Blaine Williams. Good evening. Welcome, sir. Thank you. I'll be shorter than my better half. I, too, am a resident of North Buckton Road, Opecan District, and I'm here to speak out against Middletown's annexation of properties, the amount of which is growing daily. In fact, in today's newspaper, you know, the Winchester Star, there was another article, another 250 acres that they want to throw into what Middletown last week decided to consolidate all their properties, and I would hope that you all view each of those individually that they're talking about. You know, the barbecue place is great. You know, they probably deserve to be in there, but the annexation, most concerning to the Exit 302 Coalition is the east side of 81, as been mentioned here previously. It's specifically on the corner of Reliance Road and North Buckton Road, where the Sheets truck stop is proposed. If the elected Frederick County Board of Supervisors allow this annexation to Middletown, the local residents lose the representation and voices for any future issues that may arise. Congestion, crime, environmental impacts, public health, and safety. These residents of Frederick County are not part of Middletown, and Frederick County will have washed their hands of county residents, taxpayers, by turning this property over to Middletown. This proposed annexation is under the guise of Middletown being able to provide water and sewer to this property. The reality is, it's not just a matter of water and sewer. The reality is, it's a matter of water and sewer. is Frederick County has no supporting infrastructure nor the desire to provide it to support its own absurd comprehensive plan. Since the comprehensive plans adoption the county has had the opportunity every five years to right the wrongs of their predecessors by realizing the negative impacts commercial B-2 development of this area will have and I don't feel there's anything else that needs to be said beyond simply stating Stephen City. Thank you. Thank you sir. I'm having trouble reading this name is it Mark from the Gainesboro district? Welcome sir. Mark Justice DePonzie Gainesboro district. I'm Mark Justice DePonzie. I'm the chief justice officer on the Virginia Supreme Court and don't ever get arthritis. And it was nice today so I inhaled quite a bit of dust. Good evening ladies and gentlemen. Due to the recent Virginia Supreme Court decisions, actions and actions within the General Assembly the COVID-19 political statement is dead. The Frederick County public schools are out of compliance they have already racked up a $40,000 legal bill the several cases outstanding and we need accountability. And y'all pray apart. The county taxpayer is going to be the one responsible paying the legal bill and associated cost. And that's just masking, not regards to the educational malpractice. It is known that the Board of Supervisors has the ability to claw back funds due to misapplication, etc., due to what has already been stated, given by Supervisor Graber and several other people have spoken. An independent outside audit is most definitely in order. I also strongly suggest holding, not eliminating, but holding the funds allocated to the public school system secured in an escrow account until the issues are resolved. But also understand this, that a lack of proactivity regarding the funds that you control is tacit approval of the actions of the school board. Thank you. Martha Sparkland. I'm going to pass the floor to the Board of Supervisors. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to pass the floor to the Board of Supervisors. I'm going to pass the floor to the Board of Supervisors. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you. I highly recommend that you not break your ankle. I hate that. I live in the Redbud District. My name is Martha Sparkland, and this thing with the school choice, I think, is actually a win-win-win. Every school board meeting I've gone to, in the how many years I've been going to them, somebody comes up and says, overcrowding, overcrowding, and overcrowding. That there are just too many kids in the schools. We need a new building. We need something more. If you have school choice, and there are people who decide to take their children either into homeschool or some other learning place, there will be fewer kids in the public schools. They won't be crowded anymore. So that's a win for the school. The money that goes with the child, with the student, that won't be in the public school, but neither will the student. So it's a wash. They don't have to worry about anything to do with that particular student or any of the others who are gone. The wear and tear on the schools, wear and tear on the buses, equipment, papers, all this stuff. They don't have to worry about that. So losing that money is not really an issue. And the students will have the opportunity to be in a place that is more fitting their situations. So if you put in this, there's one more aspect. Competition. What does competition do in the real world? It makes people step up to the plate and do something better. They will innovate. They will, they will, they will, they will, they will reassess. And they will try something new. But if they are a monopoly, sorry, sorry, that was out loud. I meant it. When you have a monopoly, there is no incentive to change. If you have a power structure that says, you will do this, or you will be a pariah, that is not something that's going to build up anyone's confidence. So it violates people's self esteem, feelings of self worth, or desire to do better. So let's get some competition and let's spread out these kids to the best places for them. William Schafer. Okay. Shawnee district. No affiliation to the barbecue. I'd like to tell you what I'm getting for the $180 million, $268 million next year. I'm having my child segregated. I'm having her lunchtime moved around to different times. I'm having her receive no in-class instruction. She has been granted a, she was given a mass exemption that was filled out, not by her, but the principal, who directly rejected her mass exemption and then requested an appeal on our behalf without our consent or knowledge. Mr. Daniel told us not a single mass exemption has been given out in all of Frederick County. The medical devices that are currently being distributed to the public are not available to the public. They are not available to the public. They are not available to the public. They are not available to the public. They are not being distributed in our school, are being handed out by ungloved, dirty hands, and they keep no record of any lot numbers or any idea of what's in these devices that we're throwing on our kids' faces. She's, my daughter has to be escorted to the bathroom where she's supervised to make sure that no other children enter the bathroom with her. And she's escorted around, by mass people, and she has no idea who they are. We've been stonewalled at every turn. We have a superintendent for $240,000 at the behest of the school board chairman would not return any of our calls or emails. The schools have chosen ESSER III monies over our kids' money. We have a superintendent for $240,000 at the behest of the school board chairman would not return any of our calls or emails. The schools have chosen ESSER III monies over our kids' money. We have a superintendent for $240,000 at the behest of the school board chairman would not return any of our calls or emails. We have a superintendent for $240,000 at the behest of the school board chairman would not return any of our calls or emails. And our monies should be used for our kids and not the schools. That's my opinion. Frederick County was a follower during Brown v. Board of Education. Frederick County has an opportunity to be a leader. The recent legislation that's being put forward to end these mask mandates carries no teeth. I read to you subsection C, notwithstanding any other provision of law, any regulation, rule, or policy implemented by a school board, school division, school official, or other state or local authority, the parent of any child may elect for such child not to wear a mask. That doesn't sound like it's solving any problems. Thank you. Thank you. Charles Harbaugh. Mayor. Thank you. Charles Harbaugh, Back Creek resident, lifelong Middletown resident, mayor of Middletown. I come to you all tonight $300,000 richer. Just kidding, just kidding, just kidding. My family goes back to Frederick County since the 1800s when Charles Harbaugh I was a medical doctor serving. Frederick County in the city of Winchester, this is only my second time coming to speak to you in my 10 years as mayor, but I'd like to thank Supervisor Graber and Supervisor Wells for your visionary leadership in meeting with the town of Middletown to help us prevent another Stephen City type situation. We have an excellent relationship with the county, with the sheriff's department, the fire department, and the inspections, and we want to work together and we thank you for the opportunity to speak at the joint work session. The town of Middletown, we're well represented here tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We can't reiterate that enough. And we're stuck in Middletown almost as the middleman with being asked to serve these properties and providing water and sewer but not getting any of the other benefits that go along with that. We do provide police protection. We're oftentimes the first calls in Kendall Mills, Sheetz, and then the Exxon station. We've been serving a lot of these properties out of good faith for quite some time, for 40 years. The Exxon property, Lord Fairfax Community College, Middletown Elementary School, Thermo Fisher Scientific. These are all outside of town limits that we're serving. We are happy to work together. And I know the board is concerned about a loss of revenue, but it's whether you see this glass as half full or half empty. Empty fields are not necessarily earning you the commercial revenue that you need for your school system. But if you get water and sewer available to Claytor or Aikens property, and they become commercial properties, you're going to see significant revenue increases in business taxes, real estate taxes, personal property taxes that you're not seeing right now. And yes, the town would get a little bit of it, but by giving them water and sewer available, you're going to see increased commercial revenue. And we're looking forward to the opportunity to discuss this at the joint work session. Thank you so much. Thank you, sir. Mr. Delito. Thank you. Welcome. Excuse me. Good evening, Board of Supervisors. My name is Priscilla Delito, and I'm pleased to say that Ms. Judith McAncelotter is my representative in the Stonewall District. Over the last two years, COVID-19 has had far-reaching devastating effects. Priscilla Denton Music because we've seen that I was working in the city. I'm essential information for the characteristics of my own university and history and the historical impact that COVID-19 has had on our community. It's been damaged to quote me, I'm in the same place of my Kafie Brown and at the same time am also a stakeholder. Thank you. Thank you. mind. She started crying. And one of the children was maybe a year or two older than my own son, Austin, and he started crying. And there I was. I told the cashier just to take care of her order. Just bag it up. I've got it. Got it covered. So we get out to the parking lot a little while later, and she approaches me at my vehicle. She explains to me that she had lost her job because of COVID. She worked at a pretty popular diner here in town, actually, had to close because of COVID restrictions, and she lost her job. She was having trouble making ends meet. With a base salary of $196,000 and a raise that was voted for behind closed doors last year, our Frederick County Public Schools Superintendents, now makes a yearly salary of $246,318, plus an additional $25,521 in additional compensation, as outlined here in Mr. David Sovine's contract. There is, however, a 5% raise in his new budget for our educators, many of which are highly-rewarded. Many of which are highly qualified, with wonderful hearts and in it for all the right reasons. But their health care insurance premiums are going up, so take that as you will. Many teachers are without appropriate educational materials. They have to pay for their own professional development opportunities out of pocket. I feel this is not being a good steward of tax dollars. The Financial District of New York, which is a very important district, has some of the resources, I think it's ren Kawelik and themanueli, ahed knees have handed out to some of our superficially-recognized poor schools, one of our付 Resp these excellent facilities, particularly in theblocks so this needs food and the rate of China is real low, but it's actually a good deal. I think if this is ever going to get off our toll fulfillment pued peek plan and is effective immediately, involving the ACLU in other counties. There are pending litigation, pending litigation right here in Frederick County right now, and more forthcoming. With a history of blatant disregard, in my opinion, for utilizing tax dollars for defense when they can be so, utilized in so many other ways to directly impact our students that are out there in the classrooms. Investment in children is an investment in our future, the very most valuable asset we as a society has. My tax dollars and those of many others, I'm sure, are better invested in high quality educational material, appropriate pay raises for high quality teaching staff, and a yearly salary less than that of the United States Vice President for a district superintendent. In a district with a superintendent earning nearly $300,000 a year, there shouldn't be even one Frederick County public school student without a winter coat, arriving at school with an empty tummy, or seeing his mama cry at the checkout at Walmart in front of me. Thank you for your time. Bob Ford. Welcome, sir. Welcome, Mr. Chairman. Bob Clark, Opecan District. Thank you again for this evening. I'm just gonna jump right into this. First of all, I wanna thank 302 Coalition for coming out tonight, being present, silent partners in this that are very, very much welcome to have here. So on Thursday, January 27th, 2022, the town of Middletown had a special town council meeting to take a vote on a motion to annex 10 acres of land in Frederick County. Prior to the vote, the presentation of the mapping and the parcel information was conducted, and I have a copy of that here, which basically categorized the parcels in three exhibits on geographical, based on geographical location. So we had exhibit A, which parcels were 13.48 acres south of Middletown, that includes Schaefer's Barbecue. Exit, exhibit B is our five parcels, totaling 239.61 acres north of Middletown, which includes Lord Fairfax, Frederick County Schools, and the Hester property. And then of course, exhibit C, three parcels east of Middletown, exit 302, not contiguous to their border, that totals 22.17 acres, which includes the Exxon and Zero Reliance Road, the location of the sheets. This represents a total of 275 acres of Frederick County land. After the presentation, the mayor called in, said, for an all or nothing vote on all three of those exhibits. This all or nothing political maneuver placed the members of the Middletown Council into a moral dilemma because of the mutually conflicting and dependent conditions it created, a circumstance that denied the town council members the ability to come up to a fair and equitable solution for all parties, based on the merits of each parcel or exhibit to be considered. In short, each council member was denied the ability to support both Shaffer's Barbecue's desire to be annexed and our coalition's effort to save our neighborhood and our Frederick County and national history. The motion passed four to two, Vice Mayor Jeffrey Pennington and Councilwoman Stephanie Mitchell were in objection. On Monday, February 7th, 2022, a Middletown Council, during a Middletown Council work session in a four to two vote was passed. The vote was to approve the Middletown Council's decision to move forward on adding 250 additional acres of land on the east side of Interstate 81 in Frederick County to their original ask to this board. The land owned by the Aikens Group of Winchester, Virginia, is comprised of property owners, Robbie and Amy Molden, and the County Historic Resources Advisory Board representing the Opequon District. He also owns 114 of those 250 acres. On January 28th, in the letter, Aikens Group stated their sole interest is really having water and sewer service into the sewer and water service area. They indicate this is not, I'm gonna finish up here real quick, this does not mean all parcels must be in the town. A Middletown, Middletown's heritage, history, and small town vibe needs to be preserved and the revenue from out of the town water and sewer service could help fiscally fund projects for this to occur to include transportation, water, sewer infrastructure, and historic relics. What about Frederick County's historic relics? We're talking about Middletown, but what about the residents that live in the auspice and under this board? We're talking about the We asked this board to vote on the annexation when it comes up, because it will, we know it will, based on the individual merits of the locations, parcels, not an all or nothing vote. Please help us keep Frederick County in Frederick County. We're passionate about it. You hear a lot of people step up to this microphone and say how much they've moved out here and they love this county. I'm telling you, I'm one of them. Thank you very much. Have a good one. Thank you, sir. Kim Fletcher. Welcome. Thank you. I'm Kim Fletcher. I live in the Peckin District. I'm also here speaking tonight against the annexation of the Frederick County properties east of 81 into Middletown. I live about a mile from the parcel that is currently under contract to Sheetz. Drive by it every day to go anywhere. Ever since I became aware of Middletown and Frederick County having these discussions about a boundary line adjustment, I've been asked and I'm asking myself one question. What's in this for Frederick County? Why would Frederick County give away property to another jurisdiction, property that has, that is generating revenue and has the potential to generate more? I just, I understand what might be in it for Middletown, but I don't understand what's in it for Frederick County. So, I've gotten to this question as it relates to the Sheetz property. Came from a Winchester Star article published last November and the answer was that once the property was part of Middletown, then Frederick County wouldn't have to deal with the headaches that came from this type of development. Since I can't bring myself to believe that the Board of Supervisors members would vote to cede part of the county and its associated resources, I'm not sure if I can answer that. But, I do know that if the Board of Supervisors and its associated revenue, just to spare themselves some headaches, I continue to have my question unanswered. So, I don't know why you would vote yes, but I do have some reasons why I'd like you to vote no. First of all, the properties in question provide that current and future tax base for the residents of this county. And, in fact, the Middletown mayor admitted that Sheetz is coming whether it's part of Middletown or whether it's part of Frederick County. So, why not keep that in Frederick County? A vote no keeps it in Frederick County. The properties that I'm speaking of, the ones east of Middletown are not contiguous to Middletown and are islands surrounded by Frederick County. A vote no keeps Frederick County whole and doesn't turn, that southern end of the county, into Swiss cheese. And thirdly, because of where these properties are located, 100% of the negative impacts that may come during and after development of that property would be felt by Frederick County residents, your constituents. And a vote no keeps Frederick County whole and doesn't turn, that southern end of the county, under Frederick County, is a vote no. A vote no preserves your constituents' representation, path of recourse, and voice if those negative impacts happen. Certainly hope those negative impacts don't happen, but it's only fair that if they do, we have someone to turn to. Please don't abandon us. Please vote no. Thank you. Jason Akins. Welcome, sir. Hey. Thank you for letting me speak tonight. Jason Akins, Gainesburg District. And thank you for the recent appointment. I look forward to helping the county. My partners and I own roughly 250 acres east of Middletown. And in the essence of time, I've emailed each of you the history of all of our efforts over the last 12 years to get water and sewer to our parcel. I'm happy to address any of those questions separately or as needed. My number is in that packet, so I look forward to our discussions. I know there's a lot of questions occurring right now regarding this boundary line adjustment or to determine how to find a solution to water and sewer to the sewer water and service area that was established in 2011. That when, in that, during 2011, when that plan was put together, was put together, it explicitly calls out for cooperation with adjacent public entities. I want to thank each of you ahead of time as you continue to have an open mind on how the two municipalities can work together to solve this problem. A boundary line adjustment could be the first step to this. This is a very complex problem with many layers and a hope that all parties can derive a solution that benefits the county and the town. We need a win-win solution here. My partners and I are willing to be able to assist in measures for transportation, infrastructure improvements, whatever it takes. It's been 12 years we've been working with this and with some of you. I look forward to being a part of the solution. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Carrie Nelson. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Good evening. Good evening. Good evening. Good evening. Good evening. Welcome. My name's Carrie Nelson. I work with H&Fund, Kallister & Company and I appreciate each of your service to Frederick County and for being here for this long meeting tonight. I work with Jason Aikens also. We're partners and I support his comments that he just recently said. I also want to highlight the email that I sent each of you all this afternoon talking about our stance on this and we just encourage you to work with town and Middletown and Frederick County together. We're very happy to come up with a solution for this area. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Sorry? That is the end of the list. All right. Thank you. Is there anyone else that would like to speak? All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome, sir. Welcome, sir. That'll work. Hello, Board of Supervisors. My name is Trace Hammond. I'm a fifth grader at Apple Pie Ridge Elementary School. I'm also our school's SCA president. I'm standing here today with my school's dean of the school, Trace Hammond, who is here to talk with us today. I'm also I'm standing here today in front of you to ask for your help. Please help us convince the Frederick County School Board to drop the mask mandate. I'm standing here in front of you tonight wearing my Frederick County Parks and Rec basketball uniform because I just got done playing a game in a Frederick County public school building. I do not have to wear a mask. I'm pretty good at math because I've had great teachers, and I'd say 85% of the people and players did not have their masks on. Why do I have to wear a mask all day at school and suffer from daily headaches but I can play sports, go out to eat, go to stores, and even play on the playground during recess without a mask? I just don't understand the mask wearing anymore. I do understand, though, the last year I could smile at my friends and teachers was when I was in second grade. I'm going into middle school next year. I'd like to see my friends' faces again. Thank you for your time. Very well done. Is there anyone else? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment period. Board of Supervisors' comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to make several. Thank you. I'd like to respond to a couple of comments here this evening. Hopefully you guys have a sense of humor still at 930 at night. I just can't wait until we have another Stephen City in Middletown. Can you? I mean, that traffic is just wonderful in Stephen City about 3 o'clock in the afternoon. It's incredible. You know, and it's been helped so much by us as a Board of Supervisors over the last 12 years putting so much money into the Transportation Department. I mean, we can count the millions, can't we? Oh, wait. There aren't any transportation dollars been put in there for the last 12 years. We have some real needs, folks, in transportation. I think we need to have a really good conversation with the Town of Middletown on how this development, as it comes, is going to affect them. I've heard a conversation this evening that we cannot allow the annexations because we cannot allow the sheets. I don't know who's spreading that misinformation, that disinformation. I don't know who's spreading that misinformation. I don't know who's spreading that disinformation. But it needs to stop. Whether the Town annexes or doesn't annex, sheets, that property that they are discussing, can come in and build a sheet station there. There's very little that we can do as a county or the Town could ever do to stop it. So the annexation discussion and the sheets discussion are two totally separate conversations. And I think that they ought to be looked at as two separate conversations, as they need to be. We must look out for the residents of Frederick County, as well as the residents of the Town of Middletown. We cannot ask the residents of Middletown to continue to fund projects in Frederick County and not receive some form of compensation for it, whether that be the police support, whether that be sewer and water, whether that be any other object that we are asking from the Town. I appreciate this board's willingness to sit down at the table at the next Board of Supervisors' meeting before then. that and have a work discussion on how we can find common ground to meet the needs of the taxpayers as well in the county as well as the town. There was a statement made about being embarrassed to live in the county and I apologize that you feel that way. If you do feel that way, I would encourage you to move and I'm sorry that you'd have to leave if that's how you truly feel. But I would like to see us do a few things to help our students. I shared a five-minute radio clip with my fellow board members of a parent from Frederick County and I've heard it reiterated here this evening about forms being filled out for their student when they go to school mask maskless and then after they have the initial form filled out for a waiver for their masks, it is appealed without the parent ever being made aware of it. That seemed to be confirmed in conversations that we had this evening. I don't see how the parents' rights, thoughts, or opinions are even being considered when the parents are not even being notified. Surely there should be some discussion by this board on whether we support financially the schools continue to support this behavior. Last but not least, most of you don't know this yet, but your personal property taxes, are slated to see a 31% increase in value of your vehicles due to the increased price of vehicles. Something will need to be done to keep you, the taxpayer, from realizing a 31% increase in your personal property taxes that you may be considered to pay. If this board does not significantly reduce the personal property tax rate, you could very well see a 30 to 31 percent, and that was not my number, that was a number that was obtained from the California Department of Transportation. So, I would like to see a 31% increase in your personal property taxes that you may be considered to pay. Commissioner Revenue's Office institutionalized the esfuerd areas to control the entire transportation design plan, in addition to the responsibility to address your household needs,ire, acquaintances, family members, spent shots and implements of the employee traffic. ligneuse value and Helsinki Business Union's Law Enforcement Commissioner Revenue's Office of a east two reduce your tax liability of this additional increase in value, as well as provide you a little bit of additional relief in your personal property tax rates. We as a locality pay our fair share in taxes. We are honest with each other and we try to work hard together. If we can band together on reducing taxes, we can reduce the stress that we are all facing as a result of increased prices from nearly everything that we purchase. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Anyone else? Vice Chairman McCarthy. MR. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Motion is second. MS. Second. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. All those in favor, aye. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Aye. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. We stand adjourned. We thank everyone for their time, attention, and their input.
