Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2023-04-19
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=184
========================================================================

So so all ready Good to see you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I call to order the April 19th Frederick County Planning Commission. Can we all take a moment of silence, please? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Planning Commissioners, just a reminder, turn on your mic when you're speaking and turn it off, please. So next thing up is the adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion to adopt the agenda? So moved. Second. All right. All those in favor? Aye. All right. The agenda is adopted. All right. Next thing up is meeting minutes. I'm hoping everybody had a chance to read the meeting minutes. Do I have a motion to approve the minutes? So moved. Second. All those in favor? Aye. All right. The meeting minutes are adopted. Next thing up is the committee reports. Do I have any committee reports? Okay. Frederick Water is doing well. Everything? They're good. And the rain has been a little low, but not bad. But the report was good for the production of the water. So other than that, I'm going to look to Winchester City. Paul. Glad to be back. Just one item on our side. The commission did recommend approval of a hotel right near Crossover Boulevard. So it is off of 81. Near the line there. I mean, that's an area that I think we've seen a lot of interest in development. So I'm sure you'll be seeing that a lot. But that's all we had. Thanks. Thanks, sir. Thank you. Next up would be Board of Supervisors liaison, Mr. Ludwig. Yeah. So just a couple of things. First of all, I was apprised tonight that we have a new supervisor that's been elected and was seated today. And she may be assigned to this board replacement. So don't be so sad about seeing me go if that happens. I can always show up on my own if you're too happy about it. But that's Supervisor Lockridge representing Gainesboro. We'll see if she gets appointed to this board starting at your next meeting. And then as far as business goes, the Board of Supervisors tonight voted to conclude, I believe, the budget season by voting for a scenario. And I wanted to provide a little bit of warning to this planning commission. I'm going to give you a little bit of information of what might be coming down the road as a result. So the board opted not to implement a tax increase on real property taxes, which I was in favor of not doing that. So that's going to, of course, reduce the income to the county over what would have over maybe a 21% increase on average had we adopted such a large tax increase that was proposed. However, at the same time... the board voted to spend every dollar requested by every department. So that leaves us in a deficit spending situation. At the last meeting, the estimate was about $24 million would be depleted from the capital fund over the next one year. And I reserve the right to be wrong on how large that number is. We can get that from, if you need it for planning purposes, from the county administrator. So I just wanted to give you a note that all the projects you might have in the future, all the projects you might have been hearing about seems to have been approved. However, we may be in a crunch on spending in a year or two as a result. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Ludwig. Next thing up is citizens' comments. Now, citizens' comments is for any items that are not before the Commission for public hearing or on the agenda. For anyone that wants to come forward, state your name, magisterial district, and keep your comments to three minutes. Do we have anybody? All right, citizens' comments. Next thing up will be a public hearing. And that will be Mr. Bishop. This will be a public hearing for rezoning number 1022 of Fruit Hill. Chairman, I'll have to recuse. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. As you have noted, this is rezoning 1022. Many of you are familiar with it from a work session that was held in the previous year. It's come a long way since then, so I will go ahead and update you as best I can here. This is a proposal to rezone 220.06, which is currently zoned rural areas, or RA, to a combination of uses, primarily M1. 189.08 acres. Your new TM, or rather remand OM zoning district, 20.64 acres and 10.34 acres of B2. This rezoning does consist of parcels 33-9-1A, which is only 0.3 acres, 33-A-89, which is 106.79 acres, and finally 33-9-1A. Thank you. This is a proposal to rezone 20.63-A-90, which is currently 112.97 acres. From the applicant's impact statement, just a brief summary of what you would expect to see with this rezoning is construction of five buildings of varying sizes, totaling approximately 2,425,500 square feet of space, as well as a 5,000 square foot restaurant and a hotel containing up to 100 rooms. and a portion of that square footage would be reserved for the potential location of a data center should that use become viable, and that's 300,000 square foot of that 2.4 million, if you're counting. And also to be clear, the five buildings are your various warehousing and data center uses. You would see potentially two more buildings for a total of seven for the hotel and restaurant, depending upon how those come to fruition. On the screen to your left, you see your current land use plan with the parcels in question highlighted in blue. Hopefully you can see my pointer here. That little .3 acre parcel you heard me start off with, it's so small it's kind of covered up by the text here, right here at the intersection of Zachary Ann Lane and Rush Church Road, and then these two larger parcels, this large triangle and this other shape below it, which I won't define. Of course, you have your Flying J truck. Stop right there at the exit 323 interchange to help give you a point of reference. And of course, over on the other side of the interchange, you do have the Amazon Distribution Center. Attached, now you have the current comprehensive plan uses for these parcels, which as you can see are mixed use industrial and office. I'm sorry. I believe manufacturing. Manufacturing and office. But moving on to the applicant's GDP, just a little more detailed layout of what they envision for the property. As noted previously, your potential warehousing uses, one, two, three, four buildings. Right here is your potential data center. And right there at the intersection, the existing location of Zachary Ann Lane, you have the hotel restaurant uses. While we have this graphic in front of us, I will point out, some of the proffers I'm going to soon be referring to. You do see a relocation of Zachary Ann Lane to the west from its current intersection point. That's approximately, it's 550 feet further west from where it currently intersects with Resch Church Road. It would now be intersecting with what the applicant plans to call Fruit Hill Road. You'll recognize Fruit Hill Road from your comprehensive, your eastern road plan, rather. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. That. And that is located on a north-to-south basis through their parcel. And just for orientation, north is to the left on this image. Here's a little more broken, basic image of the same thing where you can just see the roadways without the buildings. I'll begin with the transportation proffers. Every question I've got has been about, I've gotten around. whether it's been about transportation or virtually every question I've gotten has been about transportation, so it makes sense to start there. Obviously you have a TIA associated with this rezoning. One of the applicant's proffers is that should a use come along that's permitted under the if approved zoning that generates higher traffic than has been studied, the applicant agrees to do an additional traffic impact analysis and work with staff and VDOT to mitigate potential additional impacts. Now I would note it's also possible that a TIA could say, you're good, you can go up to whatever. So it's not a guarantee of additional improvements, but it is a proffer to kind of take the temperature of what's going on out there within the scope of potential additional trips. Relocation of Zachary and Lane, which I recently alluded to. Construction of two lanes of the proposed Fruit Hill Road on 104 feet of right of way with a shared use path. I would note that the 104 feet of right of way would accommodate a future four-laning of the roadway. Construction of a westbound left turn lane on Resch Church Road itself, where it intersects with proposed Fruit Hill Road, so basically a left turn lane into the site. Abandonment of Rubuck Lane right of way. Construction of a turnaround at the end, prior to the applicant's property for buses and such things as VDOT plows at that new terminus. And dedication of an additional 25 feet of right of way along Rubuck Lane from Resch Church Road to the turnaround that is being constructed. And further $198,000 toward Rubuck Lane improvements. Additional transportation proffers are improvements to the intersection of Route 11 and Resch Church Road, or if that project is not approved, it's not approved. And further, $198,000 toward the turnaround of the roadway. That proffer is unable to be implemented, more specifically if they are unable to obtain the needed right of way to put that improvement in place. A cash proffer of up to $650,000 to be used toward road improvements. That up to is because it's based off of 50 cents per square foot as that is developing. They also proffer no additional connections to Resch Church Road. Simply put, aside from Fruit Hill Road. Other notable proffers, there is a list of use restrictions within the M1 areas of the rezoning, which I can go into more detail about what those are should you desire. There's a limitation of 2,125,500 square feet of warehousing, 300,000 square feet of proposed technology slash data facility, no more than one hotel with 100 rooms, no more than 5,000 square feet of restaurant, perimeter landscaping, which is depicted in the GDP in your packet, and a six foot landscaped berm along Carrollton subdivisions and Ridgeway estate subdivisions. Applicant does also proffer vegetation preservation for 75 feet or a 200 foot building setback where adjacent to RA property with no berm. Lighting proffers, which are in the M1 area, are also proffered. Lighting proffers, which are in the M1 area, are also proffered.DBOT.org proffers have accepted all requirements punching room with也是n order Nah Vogt for shorter zoom desk,葉aged it sto доп SD SD G SD SD Proffer 3.5, staff would emphasize that it would be ideal for the applicant to complete the upgrades to Roebuck Road as opposed to providing the cash to the county. Frankly, they can do it more quickly and likely cheaper than the county can do that. Proffer 3.6, staff would note that the applicant has removed potential commitments to complete improvements needed for Exit 323 per the TIA. I've received some comments on that comment, so I just want to be clear, that's not me trying to beat up the applicant or put in a negative spin. I'm just pointing out a difference in the proffers from what you've previously seen before. I understand how the applicant got there. I just have to point out the changes to you. Proffer 3.7, staff does have concerns with the justification to reach the actual dollar amounts as included in your packet. The applicant has pointed out how they can. What I'm concerned about is not being able to rub off their retained plans. I mean, with respect to the открыting the chasers for public-chuckles program it's a complex issue. The empowerment of public- Rena applies to economic independence—a 줘 therä—of the state of Roebuck. Really, I'm sorry to say the今回 be incorporated by the notes, but we're not<|br|> equipped. We only have your example, Ron. So then you have to do things like leverage state dollars and that sort of thing. So it just ends up costing more and taking longer, and that's just how it works. So we did have some concerns with those costs. Proffer 3.13, while we do recognize that staff, I'm sorry, that the applicant has implemented the potential of a signalization at the intersection of Fruit Hill Road, future Fruit Hill Road, and Rest Church Road, we do have a little bit of exception with the pro-rata share. I don't believe that total traffic should be part of that pro-rata share. I understand the inclusion of realigned Zachary and Lane in that component, but I do not necessarily agree with the inclusion of through trips that exist today on Rest Church Road that create no need for that signal. This time, this item is presented for a public hearing. We do have the eminent. John. I'm on foot here to present for the applicant. We're seeking a recommendation of the Board of Supervisors. We do also have Mr. Adam Campbell here from VDOT who can perhaps speak better than I to some of the technical details of the TIA if we end up going into that range. I know the applicant similarly has experts on that front, and I can try and address any questions you may have. Any questions for Mr. Bishop? Am I right? I do. Actually. John. Yes, sir. Okay. So I want to make sure I'm clear on a couple things. Two of them are just dollar things. So in other words, they were going to proffer $198,000 for the Rubuck Lane situation there. And from your suggestion is just fix it, right? Don't proffer money. Just fix it because you think they can do it cheaper, right? Or all studies indicate that they can do it cheaper. I fully believe they can go in there and pave it and get it done cheaper and faster than us. Okay. And the same thing with the $650,000 proffer. Cash proffer. Now, where was that proffered money going to? It's at the board's discretion for transportation improvements in the area. And that only triggers if they are unable to implement the proffered improvement at the intersection of Rest Church Road and Route 11. Okay. So once again, we, staff, always would prefer the physical improvement goes in place. Really for the same reasons that we're kind of picking at the dollar amount. It's just going to be faster. And likely cheaper for them to do it. I understand the difficulty of right away. Well, there's no impact for the taxpayers as well. Oh, yes, sir. And so the last thing was, I reckon I missed this when I read it. But you talked about something. They took something off the table about fixing anything to do with the interchange at 81. Yeah, there's a previous version. I apologize. I realize I'm pushing this all over the place. There was a previous version of the proffer whereby, simply put, they were giving the board a choice. To say you want them to fix the interchange ramp. It's the northbound exit ramp onto Rest Church Road. Or the Route 11 interchange. Frankly, in discussions with the applicant, they were concerned. And we didn't necessarily disagree that, for lack of a fancier term, that can be a bit of a rabbit hole. There's significant studies that have to be undertaken. Federal approval. A lot of back and forth with the state. Nobody believed that that would happen any time soon. I believe the applicant chose to focus their energies at the intersection of Route 11 and Rest Church Road. Because that is where the TIA showed the greatest degradation of service. But, like I said, I still felt the need to just point out that it's not there. Because it is an identified recommendation of their TIA. Right. So, no matter what happens, both issues still. Yes, sir. I mean, I live down there. Yes, sir. I'm not making light of it. I'm just trying to be fully transparent about how it got there. Okay. Thank you. That's all I've got for now. All right. Ms. Brannon. Yes. The profit that's for if he cannot get the right-of-way. Yes, ma'am. Well, what would the... You say you want him to build the road. What would you want him to do then? The way they're... Frankly, you've had other proffers. I would give... In logistics, as an example, where they have proffered off-site improvements like that that have potential to have right-of-way issues, that basically the shift wasn't there. If they hadn't been able to make those things happen, it would have been on them. This one creates a shift where if they can't get that right-of-way for what's a reasonable amount of money or can't come to an agreement to get that right-of-way, that's when it shifts to the cash proffer toward that improvement and becomes, for lack of a better way to put it, a county issue. And do you know the status of getting the right-of-way? Has the applicant talked to you? They've identified that they do need right-of-way. I do not know exactly how much. I doubt there has been, but I would leave it to them. I'm not aware, is what I should say, that there's been any discussion yet on actually obtaining that right-of-way. Mr. Thomas. I'll start off by saying I think this is a good use to buffer the Flying J from the housing development over there. I really don't want to see five-acre lots. I don't want to see a housing development in there. But I have a lot of concerns on the transportation. I don't think the proffers are sufficient or their offers are sufficient to mitigate the impacts that are going to occur. I think the right-of-way is going to be a big part of the transportation system. And I think allowing them to shift the responsibility to the county by giving cash instead of forcing them to make sure they work hard to get right-of-ways and get property to build the transportation that would help relieve the impacts gives them little incentive to want to deal with folks to get the necessary right-of-ways. It really shifts the burden more to the county than it does to the developer. And I don't think we should be going down that road. I don't think we should be going down a road where county taxpayers, we just heard our Board of Supervisors rep tell us that the county budget next year is not real flush with money. I don't think we want to go down a road where we potentially are going to be burdening county taxpayers with a higher property. tax rate or having to come up with matching funds that have to be supplemented through some other way and then try to get the state to match funds to do transportation improvements to me mitigate the impacts I'm a little concerned with the amount of traffic that's already up there the existing traffic flow through traffic to the housing on the west side they fly in j traffic I don't think the stacking lanes are sufficient enough to take care of the stacking and I think we're gonna have a lot of backups getting on and off route 11 getting on and off 81 I think the interchanges the the off ramps and the on ramp ramps on 81 we're gonna have a stacking issue I think those ramps potentially need to be lengthened now I know the developer may have a problem with V dot and getting to do that you know I think we're gonna have to take care of the stacking and I think we're gonna have to take care of the stacking and I think we're gonna have to take care of the stacking and I think we're gonna have to take care of the stacking and I think we're gonna have to incentivize the developer to work with V dot to get the approvals to do it and not force it back on the county where we potentially are going to be causing or pushing monetary impacts back to the county residents to be able to come up with a development here that is compatible with the traffic and that already exists there in the surrounding area I don't think the the dollar figure is they're offering are sufficient I know I'm sure the the developers gonna tell us that the TIA is over generating traffic impacts that's the best thing we have to measure traffic impacts I don't think we could you know I think we have to go with the TIA generated income or generated traffic scenarios and since we don't know the users we're really kind of hanging out with the traffic and we're going to have to do everything we can to try and do best in the best way and understand that all of these imposing characteristics that we're hearing about Olympics or events have been going on we just want to make for some pretty classroom staples like sky in our area that will allow those numbers to weigh down and basically that's what we want the traffic that's what we want that will allow students to feel comfortable and I think the 7.8 best thing is that we're going to get back to a state as arizona eras in our city how we can grow segregation of our level of service on our overall traffic system there. Specifics of kind of the technical details of the TIA, I would defer to Mr. Campbell from VDOT since he's taken the time to come up here and he was the reviewer of the TIA, or one of rather. I can touch on, I feel like what I repeat, we all know we have a very short spacing there. There's not a lot of capacity for stacking. One of the TIA recommended improvements is an additional turn lane on that northbound ramp. Status seems to be holding at the other three ramps in terms of degradation level of service. So as far as all the ramps, the TIA doesn't seem to be saying that, but it does for that one ramp identify an issue. Okay. Would you like to hear from Mr. Campbell? Yeah, I can pull him up. Well, I'd like to hear from Mr. Campbell. Yes, sir. You know, either now or later, it doesn't matter. If he'd like to wait until after. If there's other questions for me and then maybe, I mean, it's your party, so to speak. So it's as you prefer. Mr. Chairman, can I add a question on to that? Sure. So I guess to follow up with Roger, I'm a simple kind of guy. I'm not a traffic study guy. I leave the engineers to the engineers. And I can't say where the stacking needs to be or where it doesn't need to be. I'll leave that up to the gentleman from VDOT. But when I, like I said, I'm a black and white kind of guy. Does the proffers satisfy the TIA requirements other than the $650,000 for the potential issue at 323 and Route 11 if an easement is not attained? You mean if they can't get the right of way? They can't get the right of way. Excuse me, right of way. No, I don't believe so. Because it just puts it on the county. Take whatever money we do get per the proffer and try and implement that. So the county would still have to go and potentially condemn that right of way, that sort of thing. Do I have a hard and fast cost estimate? No, the improvement's not even designed. I just, you know, doesn't pass my sniff test, so to speak. Let me rephrase the question. Does, if they obtained the right of way. Yes, sir. Okay. Because it's a lot easier to a, the public, excuse me, the private sector has a, more of a harder opportunity, I would say, to get a right of way than say through intimate domain or whatever needs to be done that the county can do. Okay. But assuming that the, that they could not get the right of way, okay, would the $650,000 be sufficient for the improvements that would need to be made for that intersection? Even if, go ahead, I'm sorry. I'm fingering the air a little bit here. I don't think it would likely be enough. It could be. It could be. But I think likely not. Especially by the time we actually get to that point doing a project. In terms of both improvements identified in the TIA, if we were trying to go that route, for sure not. All right. Thank you. All right. One last question. Well. When was the last, when was the last time the county used intimate domain to get property to, for traffic improvements? If ever, it's before my time with the county. So probably 20 years plus. He's going to say how long you've been here. Not that I've been here 20 years yet, but knocking on the door at 18, so yeah. Mr. Kearns. Thank you. Quick question for you. So should this be approved tonight with the proffers? What would the workflow, what would the development flow be? So could they build this before the traffic improvements were made? Could they put the cart before the horses? The way they've laid it out, they would have to have built their internal roads, Zachary Ann Lane realignment, the turn lane into the right-of-way. They've got a little more of a timeline. I believe it's a year. I have to double check. To do the intersection. And upgrades. But would the responsibility then fall on the- But if that shifts to us, it doesn't hold them up on further development. It doesn't. So they could continue developing and the traffic could- Okay. Thank you. I'm sorry. I've got one more question. So if the, could a proffer be crafted in regard that if they didn't work out an agreement with whomever it is, that they would still be responsible for the improvements with no dollar number assigned? Yes. So if they couldn't work something out, because it would be in their best interest to try to work something out, but if something didn't work out and the county had to get involved, they could potentially still be on the hook for the fees, if it's above $650,000. Depending on the wording of the proffer, I mean, there's good attorneys behind me, so, but yeah. Just depending on the wording of the proffer, I would say you could likely get there, yes. Okay. All right. Go to here. Did you want to hear from Mr. Campbell? Well, yeah, I would like to. Okay. Ms. Brannon? I know that the applicant, he builds prospective businesses. So the hotel and the restaurant, that's the- oh, thank you. That's the business zoning, and then the TM zoning is the data center. Does that open up all the businesses in those zoning? Yes. Okay. And then the M1 zoning, what if there's not a restaurant that wants to come there or a data center or a hotel? Based on their proffers, there are technically- for example, you can put a fast food restaurant in an M1 zoning. However, the way they've outlined their proffers, they have limited themselves to one restaurant and one hotel. Mr. Chairman? Since John doesn't have the specifics of the zoning, I'm going to ask you to go ahead and ask the question. Specifics of the proffers before him, I just have one clarification that the B2 and TM districts don't have any use restrictions written into the proffers. They are written in a manner, as John stated correctly, that they couldn't do more than the one restaurant or hotel, but they could do any other use, I think, allowed under those zoning districts. Is that correct, Mr. County Attorney? I may be wrong. I think it's a little bit more than that. I think it's a little bit more than that. I may defer to the applicant, but my understanding was that the restriction on one restaurant and one hotel was only in the B2 portion of the proposed rezoning. That's the B2. Okay. Theoretically, I don't think hotels are allowed in M1, but restaurants would be, so theoretically they could do more restaurant in the M1. Probably, again, not the ideal use for them. You're right, Rod. Per 1.5, it does refer to the B2 district only. Thank you, Mr. Williams. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Mr. Campbell, could we have you come up, please? Thank you for coming up here tonight. Good evening, members of the Commission. My name is Adam Campbell. I'm a transportation planner with the VDOT Stanton District. The district planning section, along with the traffic engineering section, led the review of the TIA. Thanks, sir. Thank you for attending tonight. Mr. Thomas? When you review the TIA... And I'm not even... And I'm not exactly sure what your total position entails there, but usually when you look at the TIA, you don't look at the stacking capabilities and the specifics as far as... Well, you do look at the level of service specifics for the ramps and Redbud Lane, or Rest Church Road, and the other intersections there. Do you think the TIA significantly overstates the traffic, or do you think it's fairly accurate? Mr. I don't know. I think it's fairly accurate as what would be expected. Mr. I think the TIA, as it was presented and reviewed, follows the policies and guidance of TIA development and submission that VDOT has in place. And you think it's an accurate depiction of the level of services that we will incur at the intersections and the ramps? Mr. So, this TIA is typical of most TIAs. We used two measures of effectiveness to... Mr. Two measures of effectiveness to evaluate the performance before and after. The one is delay per vehicle, which results in your level of service. The other is queuing, so that's your stacking, per se. So, we look at the queue length generated by the analysis compared to the storage available to accommodate that queue length. So, the stacking is considered in the analysis and the review of the TIA. Mr. And do you think what the... Mr. And do you think what the developer is offering is sufficient? Mr. So, I will note that with the mitigation proposed by the TIA, a lot of the extension of queues, increase in delay associated with it that you look at in the unmitigated scenario with build-out, a lot of it has to do with... The problem here is the spacing between 11 and the interstate. That's plain and simple. That's the issue here that we're dealing with. And it's not just the interstate. It's not... We deal with that all up and down 81, just how it was built with 11 so close to it. So, when you have operational performance that starts to degrade at 11 in Rest Church, those spillbacks start to impact ramp operations. So, with the mitigation that they're offering, particularly at 11 in Rest Church, you see an improvement in getting the traffic on Rest Church through that intersection. That results in a substantial improvement on the ramps as a result. Do you see any possibility the queuing or the stacking would back the ramps up onto 81? Mr. So, in the build analysis without the mitigation, you did start to see some queue lengths starting to get 900 feet plus towards down to the main line. I will note that BDOT recently in 2019 completed an improvements to the northbound off ramp and the southbound on ramp. The Winfred MPO and the... Winfred MPO submitted for that improvement through SmartScale and the initial round of SmartScale on behalf of the county. That construction was completed in 2019 time period. That was not really to provide additional stacking space. It was basically bringing the deceleration lane and the acceleration lane up to current standards. So, you never want... You're kind of fixed with what you have on the ramp in terms of where you can stack. If you don't want it to get back on to where you're stacking on the main line just because you start having safety issues then. Mr. But the analysis shows that the TIA once that mitigation is done at Rest Church and 11, you see significant improvement to that northbound queue regardless of an additional lane on the ramp. Additional lane on the ramp, you see additional improvement but it's not as substantial as what you see from the improvement to the Rest Church 11 intersection that they're proposing. Mr. Okay. I... I guess I missed Nebi. Mr. Okay. Mr. Okay. I guess I missed Nebi. Did you say specifically that you don't think there'll be any backup on 281? Any queuing back? Mr. So, I was just going to say that these TIA reviews, I mean, it's just as much an art as a science. We use the best... With the policy in place, the best practices we have in place but you're still making a considerable amount of assumptions in terms of trip generation, trip distribution with following the VDOT guidance for developing this TIA and restoring the ramp. And so, I think that the TIA, the TIA, the results show that with the mitigation improvements associated with this, the trip duration from this development, they will not experience backups to the main line. Mr. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else? Mr. Orndorff. Mr. Well, my concern would be that... Okay, fine. The 11, the Route 11 and Rest Church fixing that up down there helps the main line mitigate that a little bit. But, you know, I think that the... I think that the... I think that the... I think that the... I think that the... I think that the... the but, if $650,000 profer, I don't think... I mean, again, with a little bit of construction I have in my bailiwick, I don't think that touches fixing all that work. I mean, do you have any comment or additional information? Mr. I think that's... Mr. Skateball. Whatever that you think. Mr. All I can tell you is, VDOT cannot do the improvement for that amount. Mr. Okay. Okay. Okay. Mr. I will also note, just for your all benefit knowledge. The Winfred NPO has it in their work plan for this upcoming year to do an NPO study, kind of a holistic study between exit 323 and 321 at Clearbrook to the south. So that's another opportunity where we're going to look at a larger picture study of what the long-term needs are going to be for that section of the county. Anybody else? Ms. Sprannon. Like we do have a problem. Route 11 is very close to 81, and we do have a lot of traffic on that road already, none of which was caused by this applicant. So I'm not sure how VDOT works in mitigation, but on a personal front, it doesn't seem fair to expect an applicant to do that. VDOT is responsible for fixing all of these problems that he's not responsible for, but a portion of. So is this typical, like to expect them, even though the road's already overcrowded, even though 11 is too close? Well, you've got to pay all this money to fix all these problems. I mean, that's always an issue of kind of like the last person on the door. But, you know, as a transportation network, it fills with additional capacity to the point of being what we call oversaturated. The network can handle a lot. You basically can get to close to 80% of the available capacity you can do without really any issues. There's a smaller window when you start getting to capacity where a certain development of this size can have a tipping point where you surpass what could be peak hour congestion with just a longer time. So it's a lot of work. It's a lot of work. It's a lot of work. It's a lot of work. It's a lot of work. it's a lot of work. for a duration of congestion related to a significant development of this type. This is kind of standard procedures of how we address TIAs in our consideration of the mitigation to address impacts. Good. Anybody else? Mr. Campbell, thank you so much. Thank you for your time. Coming up here. Would the applicant, Mr. Bishop, would you like to speak anymore? No, sir. The applicant does have a presentation. I'm just pulling it up. OK. OK. use this or the master whatever you please I got my little power player yeah mr. chairman good evening members of the Commission thank you John foot I'm with Walsh Colucci and you know that you actually knew that I want to start with a couple of contextual things that are going to be part of my presentation here but really I think we all want to talk about transportation myself I included of course mainly because and I'll get to this in more detail I think the last comment from the kind that counselor over there is this sounds awful like a conversation about how do we fix all of 3 1 3 21 and 3 23 with a single applicant who is admittedly billing a fair amount of development out there but at the same time it's only obligated by any concept to mitigate its impact that's what it's supposed to do so the question is what's its impact and how is it going to solve that problem we just heard that there is going to be a holistic study of the 321 323 interchange is coming up I didn't hear the timing of that I'm sure it's not tomorrow but it will be coming up and will help you and one of the concerns that you might have is the logical end of this conversation is that nothing should happen at either of those interchanges until who knows what until some magical well I was with the path foundation just yesterday who got a gift from Mackenzie Scott of about 25 million dollars maybe you're waiting for that they can start with my little John you know I never know how to move this thing along Equus as you know has been building in this county now for years. It is not new to you. It is not unknown to you. It specializes in a particular kind of logistics company. That's what it's looking for at this facility. These are people that have been in your community for a long time, many of these companies. We know there are some people here, they've not got customers for that, yes, but we know that there have been conversations about businesses here who are looking for more space and would perhaps like to come out here because they need that additional space, but this is the kind of stuff that they build for you in the community. You've already seen this, you know where it is, nobody's surprised. You've seen this and you know what it means. And this is the cheapest little thing. Well now I just turned it off. Okay. You've seen this in a black and white version, but we wanted you to just be sure you know where it is. This of course is the magic 320, I'm sorry, Route 11. Interchange, the ramps here, northbound. Now a couple of things to specifically mention is this right here is the proposed data center facility. One of the things that wasn't made absolutely clear is that if no data center produced for this site, it will remain empty until a data center is available or until it's rezoned. It is limited to that data center use in the event the data center shows up. You know, Mr. Chairman, we've had discussions about the probability of a data center being able to be able to be used in the event that it's not. We've had discussions about the possibility or possibility of that many times over. We don't know. I do, as you might know, some data center work. And as a consequence of that, I'm aware that they're looking farther and farther afield because it's becoming harder and harder to put data centers in the Northern Virginia corridor where I live and work more often. They may be coming out here at some point. For your benefit, I hope they do. You may not like them, so don't tell them I said that. I might move ahead with this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is just a few moments. And through this klimatic management, these guidelines areled by the Netherlands, I think, do give the blink of an eye to each particular land theme within our application. Thank you. So, we just01 state GOEP Research Resption for USDA. It's located at please个 gaan engineered by Dice Engineering. This is just a closer look of the same thing, a little bit larger scale. Now, one of the points that was raised earlier is about trip generation, of course, and one of the things I wanted to point out is the applicant can construct this 2,135,000 gross square feet, but only 300,000 square feet of it can be high-cube coal storage warehousing. Now, there was a plan to have a lot more of coal storage because we understand there'd be a market for that, but it's a unique factor in IT trip generation that at 300,000 square feet, that's consistent with the TIA and the numbers that we use in the TIA. Go above that number, and it starts to melt the TIA down. So, by limiting that high-cube storage, coal storage, then you're safe. Your numbers meet what the TIA studied. And as you can see, the 300,000 square feet of data center only is what I mentioned with respect to the TM district. Now, this is a colored version of what Mr. Bishop put up with respect to the transportation effort. This is your comprehensive plan north-south road. Okay. I want to emphasize that that is a four-lane divided road. That's almost maybe a little more than $2 million worth of construction. That is far more than a project of this size can legitimately justify by itself. We don't have anything like that kind of trip generation here. Total daily trip generation, about 4,300, maybe 3,400 in the morning peak hour, about 300 in the evening peak hour. I don't remember the exact numbers, but it's in that range. That's peak hour traffic. That doesn't justify that, but the applicant is prepared to build that four-lane divided road for you at that cost. Zachary Ann right now comes right out here next to Flying J. In order to make this all work better, and Flying J knows this and does not object, Flying J, we're going to move Zachary Ann down so that it comes out this much farther down Rest Church Road, and there will be improvements to Rest Church Road that are helpful. Are you getting people into it now? No, I'm good. I'm good. Okay. You can get into the Okay. So, could you stop your nonsense? No. Exactly. Once I get there, yeah. Okay. Okay. So, we're going to commute that entirehhh. It is 아마 15 SPEAKS I transpired. All right. So, as we said, we're not going to do anything else in city and area, but a land~" All right. And you enjoy this view the composite photo of me traveling around the city, but he comes up as the governor of these small, really peaceful, extremelycardinianoneスト kilts. Now, In our discussion of putting money to the ramp, we all agreed with the difficulty of even doing that as a practical matter, whether the money was sufficient for it or not. But remember, and I'll get to the money in a second, remember, there's only so much that can be extracted for this development for these mitigation processes. And so we looked at the Route 11 interchange, and just as Andrew said a moment ago, I'm sorry, Adam said a moment ago, it's the Route 11, Rest Church Road intersection that's the most gravely ill-functioning today. And as he just told you, improve that intersection, and you actually improve the functioning of the ramp. It made more sense to us to devote the effort to improving that area than to going onto the road. To the ramp, and putting money in that may be wasted over time and fairly soon. Now, why did we do it the way we did it? And the answer is, and I think it was suggested a moment ago, and a question was asked that leads to it, I come from a jurisdiction that has eminent domain cases on every board agenda. Why? Almost every single one of them is to acquire property for road construction. Who pays for that? The applicant. The developer. Pays every dollar of it. Pays for the legal fees, pays for the recording fees, pays for the land, pays for the appraisals. It's not a single dime of county money goes into that process. But what does it do? It gets the road right away necessary to function and to make the improvement that's required. Well, in the circumstance here, you're talking about incentivizing the developer to do the potentially impossible. Our proposal here is that the fair market value be set. So that we are not we, the royal we again, extorted by a landowner who says, well, I've got them. They've got to have me, so I'm going to drive that price up. So we say, the county will select an appraiser to provide us with a fair market value for that right-of-way, and that will be offered to the seller. Well, and the seller may say, well, I'm not going to sell it to you. Now, we have in the proffer, there is a commitment to best good faith efforts. With a company like Equus that's been here doing, you know, doing a lot of work, we're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. will build it if you look at your rural additions list it's number five and what's the estimated cost of building that under ninety eight thousand dollars that's the that's me dot the county's on estimate what cost the applicant will build already widening and improving it and their trip generation or rubuck 12 vehicles a day the $650,000 dollar amount was not just made up our project manager John Maybach Dwyer that some of you met he hired a a first the dust takedowns on contracts and gave them the information about what these improvements would be an ask for a takedown what those costs would be and then determine what the percentage our impact would be that two percent sixty percent and that's how the $650,000 came up wasn't just pull out of the air related to actual impact now scary one or two you managed to make it down to equalis facility in one arm its very well done think you'll agree and up this is an indication of what what time report that the cost you're getting got the cost of incredible every谢 from in on by would be just one hundred all you're looking we've achieved pretty earned just that electric between and all this can be OK his power and water plus 200 new jobs. At a facility, this is essentially what the applicant is asking this commission to consider approving or recommending approval on tonight. The logistics and workhouse employment, you can see a 14 percent, 11.4 percent growth of logistics and warehousing employment nationally in the next 10 years, 9 years now, well, 7 years now. And it's growing faster, basically, than manufacturing jobs. And I can't read my last one down there. Maybe you can. So, well, I can read it right here. In Hampton Roads, logistics and warehouse wages are $1,200 a week. Manufacturing wages are similar, $1,300 a week. So you're not losing any significant income to your employees. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I mentioned the daily trips. This is ITE estimated numbers for this project. All the proposed uses. This assumed all the uses that are in the TIA and in the proffers. AM peak on a day, 430 vehicles. PM peak, 452. Now, this is what we wanted to show you because this is not modeling. This is reality. What you're looking at is weekday PM peak hours and weekday AM peak hours above the top. The blue is Tyson's Drive. This is what that building should have produced under ITE numbers. It's 56 peak hours weekly on a day. Weekend peak hours. I'm sorry, weekday peak hours. This is the blue, the 28, is what it is actually producing. The Tysons Drive, the second Tysons Drive facility, that's producing under ITE 49 vehicle trips per day. It's actually producing 11. That's a real count. Snowden Bridge, that's 350,000. It's about 60 ITE estimated trips. Actual production, 35. Same thing with weekday peak. Week. Weekday PM peak hours. 59 estimated Tysons Drive, the first of Tysons. Actual, 19. 75 Tysons Drive, 52. Actual, 24. Snowden Bridge estimated by ITE, 63. Actual, 30. A study is ongoing for five other places that's being conducted by Kittleson. And preliminary indications indicate the same relationship. You'll notice that these numbers are the roughly... If you're at them all up or are less than 50% of the estimated ITE trips. But did we use that estimate? No. Every calculation of impact, every calculation, every intersection was played by the book. Used by ITE numbers. And yet the impact is slender. It's small. 4,300 total vehicles. Per day. that spread over a 24-hour period these peak hours are what you're looking at those are the most important and this is a weekday total again at Tyson's a week day total 560 actual 204 X 493 actual 98 and Snowden bridge estimated ITE 591 actual 395 that's where we started we believe that the economic benefits of a facility such as this sort of self-evident and you have evidence existing in the county of what it can do for you we believe that mitigation of traffic impact is an absolute legitimate concern for every one of you we know that I've been doing this too long not to know that we also believe that the proposal you have before you is within the constraints under which we have to operate if the look if the county is prepared to have the developer pay for eminent domain to require to acquire that property at route 11 and and rest church the applicant will do that and we'll cover those costs because it understands as do you that that's the improvement that is absolutely most bang for the bucks and bless me Vita I just told you that's true so I understand that there is resistance there often will be a resistance to doing that but it's a way to solve a problem that we can't solve but would we respectfully request your assistance and support in connection with this application and somebody can answer your question Mr. Foote thanks sir all right questions for Mr. Foote looking to the right looking to the left Mr. Thomas Mr. Foote you talked about you have experience in the Mr. Foote you talked about you have experienced in the Mr. Foote you talked about you have experienced in the Mr. Foote you talked about you have experienced in the down toward the city with data centers. Yes, sir. Is 300,000 square feet sufficient to attract a reasonable-sized data center to Frederick County? If you read the papers from Fauquier County, you'll find that I just got approved a 285,000-square-foot data center for Amazon. So you think that would work? It did. Okay. On the proffers, and I'm concerned about the amount of money. Sure. But to mitigate that concern, instead of providing cash, would the developer consider, if you have a difficulty getting the right-of-way, having the county, and I don't know if council would have to say if this is possible or not, have the county, through eminent domain or some reasonable method, get the right-of-ways you need, you pay for the acquisition of those right-of-ways back to the county, and then you actually do the, the developer actually does the contract to build the improvements. Instead of limiting it $650,000, whatever it costs to do the improvements, would that be an option you would consider? That is absolutely an option we would consider, Mr. Chairman. It is, as I say, it's how we do it all over the place, and because we get in so many circumstances where we can't acquire the right-of-way, but we know the improvement needs to be done, and so yes. We'd cover cost. Is that possible? Legally, it's possible. Okay. I noticed he didn't say politically, but I didn't actually say that out loud, did I? No. Okay, thank you. Mrs. Brannon. Mrs. Brannon. I thought you'd sneak something in. It was just, I know he builds buildings, and that's convenient to people. They want the building built rather than have to go through this process. I didn't want him stuck. Oh, no, ma'am. I fully understand. Okay. Yes, I have a question. When we were talking about Fruit Hill Road, Fruit Hill Lane, whatever we're calling it, you mentioned four lane. Yes, ma'am. And I thought it was two lane, but you're acquiring the other two. We're only building two lanes at this time. You're only building two. We're building what's called a half section. Right. We're not building all four. I'm sorry I made you state that. We're building the half section. Right. Because we obviously, you know, 43 hundred vehicles aren't going out that way. In fact, you may notice there is nothing out there just yet. Right. I understand. But all the right-of-way will be dedicated to the county. Right. So you have no right-of-way acquisition costs. Okay. Don't need to use eminent domain, Mr. Chairman. I like that. Any, Mr. Akins? I'd like some clarity on something. One, you guys do great projects. You've been a great partner of Frederick County for many years. So love your projects. Do a good job with it. Don't quite understand one part of it, though. On October 22nd, you drafted a letter to the county. And it talks a little bit about the data center. And about how the team, Equis team, has discussed the use of the OM parcel and the expressed interest. And according to the letter, unless I'm reading something incorrectly, Dan did some homework. And you talked to a national brokerage firm. And they were pretty clear that I-81 was not an area that a data center would work. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Well, I think I think the best answer, Mr. Chairman, to that is to say that... I'm not the chairman. That's okay. That's him. It's protocol. That's okay. Always refer to the chairman. Got it. Mr. Akins. Appreciate that. I think the best way to answer that is to say that the applicant in this case, EQIS, is prepared to take a long-term risk on this. And by that, I mean when I say that Northern Virginia is becoming increasingly difficult. I mean, the application in Warrington was approved on a 4-3 vote, 3 in the morning, and Robert Duvall was speaking against me. And so it's becoming very difficult. And one of the other things that's happening is because of the amount of land that's running out, data centers are having to push closer and closer to residential areas. And that's making them ever more politically difficult. Now, they're still very much in need. I mean, the need for data centers, it's not going away. Every... Hello? No. Oh, yeah, sure, you can. Come on up. But let me finish my thought here before you can say anything and mess it up. Come on. And I just have seen so many... Well, I'll give you an example, is that five years ago, nobody was looking at Stafford County. We had just put an application in for a 22-building data center park. And... And we had a lot of people in Stafford County for the Peterson Company. No secret, it's in public, Doc, public information. I would have told you just three years ago we would never be down there, but guess what's coming down? 95. Fiber. Guess what's down there? Power. Guess who's got some power out here? You do. So I will never say, given the demand for these things and given the amount of capital that's floating around in that world, there could come a day when it's cost-effective for people to run fiber out this direction. I don't even know where it is. I know it's toward Fauquier now. I know that for a fact. So do I know it's coming? I'm not even beginning to suggest that. I haven't got any inside information. I'm just saying, and Dan will now... Now Dan has my permission to come up with me here. I mean, the reason for the question is that you're reserving a piece of land that could potentially be developed, could also, could not be developed. And from a taxpayer's perspective, and from a taxpayer's standpoint, okay, so it'd be more beneficial to the county for one day for that to be developed and for it not to just sit there in an industrial park not developed. So that's the premise of the question. This project. Right. So from an industrial standpoint, Jason, that 300,000 feet is actually shown as two stories, so it's 150,000 square foot footprint. So from an industrial side, it's just not economical to do our typical type of project. The cost per square foot is significantly higher. And now you're trying to lease 150,000 square foot logistics type space at a rate that might be 50% higher than what you would lease maybe 150,000 square feet within a 300,000 square foot building. So it wasn't really a good, from a pure logistics or typical, our typical industrial product, it wasn't an economical, win. Yes. So the thought process was that we would leave it OM. We know that there was discussion in the county about this use. If, you know, yes, our studies, nothing has changed. You know, if you're going to chase that type of use out here for that entire site, it doesn't make sense. We can make the rest of the site make economic sense for us while reserving that piece. And if we build up that, build out the whole thing and there's not a sniff of a data center, then we could come back in for a rezone, amend the TIA as needed. And now we're talking, you know, eight, nine years from now and see how, how it fills in. So that was the thought process. I appreciate the clarification. I just like my answer better, Mr. Chairman. Any other questions for Mr. But thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Okay. At this time, open this public hearing to anyone who wants to come forward and speak for or against this item. Please come forward. State your name, your magisterial district, and please keep your comments to three minutes. All right. Anyone want to come forward? Hi. Your name and magisterial district. Hi, I'm Joan Kibler. I'm in Gainsborough district. I live right off of Restoran. I've lived out there for the majority of my adult life. And I appreciate the fact that you all are all looking very closely at this development and how it's going to impact the community. So I appreciate the fact that you're digging. And the only thing that I have to say about it is I have no real issue with the fact that this land is going to be developed. Of course, being a longtime county resident, I'd rather see it stay farmland, but I know that's not going to happen. So I have no problem with what they're proposing. And most of the proffers. The only thing that I would ask is that you really look hard to make sure that this road work is done and that the proper accommodations are made before all this traffic starts rolling in. I'm a victim of my experience. I lived through Flying J. I saw the Flying J come in, and I saw the traffic backed up on 81. I saw a bridge that couldn't handle it. So anything that you can do to make sure that the right proffers are there for transportation, I know that the residents out that way would greatly appreciate. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Would anyone else like to speak? Hi. Hello. My name is John Schallenberger. I live at Stonewall District. We live on Macbeth Lane. That's a private road that goes parallel with the county. It goes parallel with West Church Road. And so we're concerned with the rhubuck. That's great. We think this is all going to be positive for us. Right now, rhubuck is in bad shape. I mean, they did do the graveling and stuff for us, but we've been asking for that to be paid for years. Right now, we have on the east side of that road, there's nothing, probably about a third of the trees on that road are dead. And that's our only way out. So numerous times, the residents have had to. When you go out to work in the morning, you have to be careful. When you go out to work in the morning, you go back and get your saw, get your tractor and clear the road before you can get out. So that's the only way we have it. So this is a positive to us, doing what they're doing. And we've also asked Bob Dreyer to fix a problem there for us. If they do pave rhubuck, is what we wanted to take off some of the hill right before they come to our intersection. And also to bring that rhubuck up to level with Macbeth. Because we can't see right now. When you come off of Macbeth and start up, you can't see anything that's on rhubuck. So that would be a safety issue for us. And they didn't see a problem with that when we looked at it. And that's about all I have. The only other thing we did ask, too, for them to look at is we have six homes that the back of those homes will be up against the development. And we asked them for them, because they got a negative behind them, we asked them if they would blacktop in front of it. Just blacktop the five-tenths of a mile on Macbeth. So they said they would do that. So they said they would look at that. So once the planning and stuff got confirmed. So I don't really have a problem with it. We'd like to keep it farmland, too. But we know that the farmer wants to sell it. And we know that this is a prime area for warehousing along 81. So we can't stand in front of progress. It's going to happen, we think. So that's all I've got to say. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? Would you like to come forward? Yes, sir. Affordable. Affordable. Thank you. My name is . I'm a resident of the Fruit Hill rezoning. I would prefer that the RA zoning remain as is. But I understand that this is prime land, my next interstate. This type of use, this type of rezoning would make sense for all practical purpose. But I do believe that there would be, based on the way the proper statement is written for the adjoining residential RA zone properties, that there are potentially some negative impacts that wouldn't be addressed through the proper statement as submitted. And so if those impacts are not mitigated now, the likelihood that those will ever happen at a later point in time are little or none. Again, I understand that this is in line with the comprehensive plan in terms of NELUP and the future land use in the rezoning. However, if they're calling for a mixed industrial office use, this is primarily industrial. I don't see necessarily a mixed use besides a hotel. But regardless, looking at the impact statement and looking at the proffers that they submitted, I appreciate the applicant's considerations and the thought they've given to Rue Buck Lane. However, if the Commission were to look at this as a worst-case scenario, the most intensive use is that it can go by a right or by conditional use permit into the M1 district, which is the most intensive district of the proposed rezoning, that perhaps those proffers would be reduced. And so I understand that the applicant would do little to mitigate those in terms of noise, light, and sound. For example, I understand that they're proffering to do landscape buffers. However, that's somewhat fluff language that's already required by the zoning ordinance in terms of landscaping and berms. So if the applicant were to go above and beyond to mitigate those impacts compared to what's there now, which is an agricultural field, to go above and beyond and provide additional evergreen landscaping so there's a full buffer year-round, and then post an increased 200-foot buffer in the fall and the wintertime, that foliage is not there to screen. And so if the applicant, you know, it would be appreciated that they go above and beyond in terms of what's there now compared to the current uses there to mitigate the impacts compared to what's there now. I know that there's more intensive uses north of that, but that's what I have to say. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anyone else who would like to come forward and speak? All righty. At this time, I close the public hearing. All right, discussion among commissioners. I will look to my left first. I'm for this. We're talking about, we just heard from the supervisors that there's going to be tight on money, but we can't keep discouraging business and taxes. He seems to have done a very good job planning this out. The owner wants to sell it to him. He wants to buy it. But in line with the rules, he's not going to sell it. So, we're going to have to do it. Thank you. We're going to have to do it. Thank you. So, we're going to have to do it. So, we're going to have to do it. We're going to have to do it. Any questions? Okay. Thank you. All right. I think that the Inland Port of Virginia is very important to the economics of our state. And, you know, I looked at the impact and saw what they said. I actually drove to some of the sites and sat and watched, and I think what he said is the basic traffic is the truth. So, I think he's done a nice job, and I'm all for this. All righty. Mr. Spurmo? Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Spurmo? I agree. I mean, as far as I think it's a good use of the site, I think we need to make sure we get the transportation proffers aligned, like Mr. Foote alluded to, that he would agree to increasing those. But I think the county needs it, and we need a tax base there. Mr. Thomas? Yeah, I'm not sure how we proceed on this. Certainly, I wouldn't want to see this delayed again, but I'm in favor of the development. I think the developer does a good job. Mr. Foote is always very articulate and explains everything to the nth degree. But the only thing I dislike is the proffers. I want to see the contractor do the construction. If the county has to help getting the right-of-way, I don't have a problem with that. But I want the developer to pay to get those right-of-ways. Or reimburse the county, whatever the county's cost is to get the right-of-ways. And I want the developer to issue the contracts and pay for the contracts. The developer can do that work significantly cheaper than the county or the state can do it. And I want to have the developer on the hook to do the work. I don't want it ending up where the developer kicks in money and the burden falls back on the state and the county taxpayers. So as long as the developer... I will vote positive on this. As long as the developer has the proffers written, that the county can assist in getting the right-of-ways, the developer will reimburse the county for the cost, and the developer will do the construction. As long as they do that, I'm in favor of this. I think it's good. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. The answer to that is yes. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. The answer to that is yes. Mr. Pearson, can you take a note on that? MR. Yeah, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Attack and plain e servants notification on the board meeting. Does consent fly ok'lll? MS. A revision of thatody. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. If there are others who approve or offering a motion, we will set forth a motion to move that item. Like I said, the board also兩ents a heartfelt mlj to do that feature record to include the motion. No appropriate representation to you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Thank you, sir. MS. here and now is not going to be productive, but I think it's clear what's intended and we can work on that. And then the applicant has also made mention of their willingness to make improvements to RUBOC. And so if the Planning Commission does have a motion to offer noting those items, I think it would be helpful to convey along to the board. Clarification on that with RUBOC. You're the one who was speaking about RUBOC, correct? Does that include the safety concerns that they're promising they'll take care of for the road? I think that's a question for the applicant more so. Mr. Fitt? When you fix it, you're going to have to fix that ditch. Fix the bump you're talking about, that'll get fixed. But is that something you all promised you would do? Yes. So that needs to be noted in the proffers then. So anything that's, am I correct? Anything like that, you have to make sure it's noted in the proffers. I think. I think it's a good point. I think it'd be helpful to include in your recommendation, and then we can work with the applicant to get the actual language written in advance of the board meeting. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. To my right. Any questions? No, no, no, we're not voting yet. We're not even doing anything. This is conversation. Conversation. Yes. Any comments? We're not voting yet. We haven't even gotten any. I'm not voting. Who said I was voting? I'm making up. Okay. I'm complimenting. The applicant. Everything they've been asked to do, they've agreed to do. So if anybody can think of anything else, let's get it. Let's get it out of the way. They've been put through a lot. We all know that. So I'm just complimenting them for agreeing to meet to the request that we have made. Now you can do what you want to do. I would agree with that. I think the applicant has done a lot of work and just worked with a lot of folks in the community. And I appreciate that. I think what this comes down to, I mean, really at the planning commission level, right, is that this is not zoned for that. And we can't look at what it might be zoned in the future or what we're discussing of maybe it will be zoned in the future. What is it zoned right now? This is what we're looking at. What is it zoned right now? What does the comprehensive plan say right now? And this is. This does not jive with what the comprehensive plan has. So, therefore, then the argument goes to the traffic and who's responsible for the traffic. And, well, it's not fair to put it on them to say, well, we have to make all of the. We have to burden all the cost of making all the traffic repairs. Well, of all the traffic mitigation. Well, this isn't. It's not zoned this way. This is an exception to the zoning. This is changing of the zoning. So, yes, it does kind of bear on to the applicant, I believe. Because this we're taking an exception here. So, right now, the roads are built to where the roads are built. This is where VDOT built them. They made the improvements a few years ago to bear the traffic that's there now. And the demand is there now. So, I think a big piece of this is that traffic mitigation of what we were talking about earlier. And several of you have mentioned. I think that's going to be a huge piece of this of, well, okay, well, let's put a little money towards this. Now, the county is burdened. And the taxpayers. Are burdened with making those improvements while they can start constructing and adding to the traffic. And then, all of a sudden, the bill gets put on the taxpayers here. That's a big concern of mine. This doesn't really play into it. But I do want to mention it because the applicant has mentioned in the application and in their presentation several times about the demand for all of this. The high demand for warehouse space. To the best of my knowledge. There's existing space right now that's not. Is it up to 800,000 square feet in Stonewall Park? Is that accurate? That's empty right now? That's sitting empty? And then, we've got the one logistic. Is any of that empty? Is that fully leased? Yeah. That's all fully leased in there? So, currently in Frederick County, we have since 2018. We have 8,102,000 square feet of warehousing logistics here. That's been approved. And then, right now, several of those are pending projects that are moving forward. And then, one logistics as well, which I think is about a million. That includes one logistics. Right. And Mr. Chairman. One logistics. That also includes Renaissance property. Oh, wow. Okay. I think what Mr. Kearns is remembering is an approved rezoning. Okay. And then, a relocation in Stonewall Industrial Park for a future warehousing project that's not yet constructed. Maybe that's what that was. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. So, do you have any questions? Thank you. I'm going to make comments. That's all I'm going to say. Yeah. I don't have any questions at this point. You know, you're not surprised when you have a VDOT official and they do a lot of research and then the applicant comes in and says the research is a little bit skewed. You know, I'm not surprised by having two different reports. I'm not surprised by having two different reports there, number one. Number two is, you know, from our perspective, and actually, Justin, you articulated that really well, that I believe the burden of the road improvements does, in fact, fall on the applicant if we are looking at something that's not on the comprehensive plan, if it's not consistent with the comprehensive plan. So, that's what's in place today, and I believe I sort of agree with that. And thus far, in this last conversation that we've had, where you've kind of agreed, you know, in all other discussion, it's not been we're going to profit this amount of money, and you did say we were going to fix the Rubeck Road thing, but still, it doesn't mitigate anywhere remotely close to the TIA that we got from VDOT. So, I have some real concerns still about the traffic down in that neck of the woods, specifically because any event we would, approve this, it does, in fact, go against the current comprehensive plan. And so, I find it a little challenging to move forward on it until we clearly get those traffic problems mitigated from the TIA on a clear path. I would find it difficult to move forward with it. I've been very consistent with, from the beginning, from the beginning, from the beginning, from the beginning, from the get-go with this project. The Equus does, actually, excellent work. We have toured their facility in Warren County, and it's not the project. It's the mitigation, the transportation mitigation. You know, as you go around the county now, what do you hear a lot of people concerned about is transportation, is how do we fix transportation? This county can't fix transportation. So, I'm in agreement. We just need to have the proper proffers in place to mitigate the transportation. So, I'm going to have the Stonewall. I just want to make one other comment, if I could, John. Yeah. So, I thought Mr. Foote's answer to Jason on the data center was the correct answer. That's exactly how I've seen this whole thing unfold as well. Fifteen years, we haven't seen it. You said three years ago you never would have seen it in Suffolk County, but all of a sudden you put an application in, and I believe you're correct in your assessment of how that's moving. So, I believe that some of this property setting, sitting around with his own designation, could, in fact, attract a data center moving forward, just based on that comment, because I think you said it correctly, Mr. Foote, that they are, in fact, looking for properties now unlike what they maybe were looking for five years ago. So, just thank you for bringing that point up. Mr. Chairman, can I make a comment? Oh. Yes, ma'am. Ms. Brannon. No. We got a lot of citizens' comments, sent to us, and all of them were in favor of this project, and all of them were complimenting moving the road, that it would help them immediately. So, I don't think we should stonewall the project because we have high-in-the-sky ideas. Again, it's about making sure the proffers are in place correctly for transportation. That's what it's coming down to. Being in a stonewall district, not only do we all get the e-comments, but my phone rings off the hook from down there, and my house gets visited from folks down there, and the traffic mitigation was their number one thing. There wasn't a whole lot of discussion, negative discussion, as being the stonewall district representative as a result of the different rezoning on the comprehensive plan, but there was a tremendous amount of discussion about the traffic and the flow down there and that being mitigated properly based on this. So, so, those didn't make the e-comments. Okay. Well, this is the Stonewall Magisterial District. Do you have a recommendation of what you would like to do? You know, you, so, let me, let me, Mr. Pearson, I'm going to, I want to, I want to put this out there. Can the, can the recommendation be made to table this until the new proffers are put forward? We get a clear, understanding what those proffers would look like regarding mitigation of transportation. If that's the Planning Commission's prerogative, that's definitely an option that's on the table. I would comment that it's not out of sorts for generalized direction for the drafting of those proffers to be provided by the Planning Commission and for that to be worked out as the process continues on its way to the Board. Okay. So you can go either table or you can do a deny, approve, whatever you want to do. So, Okay. I think, I mean, I, I, there was good discussion and, and I like that you very quickly said, okay, we'll do that. But that's not in, right, I'm not a lawyer, thank goodness. And I, I, I would like to see that, you know, written. So, so, procedurally, I mean, I hate to, to table something that's been for so long, going for so long. But I, I think we need something more than just, okay, we'll do that. So, we'll do that. Something in writing. So the motion would be? So I think the motion would be to, is that to table it? Or, if you, if you don't mind engaging the applicant on how much time they may need, I think that might be appropriate. That would be great. Is that something that we could turn around fairly, without too much, Mr. Foote? More additional. How much time would you need, sir? To put into writing what's been discussed. What you're asking us to do is actually quite simple. Did I turn off? You did, you just turned it off. When it's red, it's on. There you go. Okay. It won't take long at all. And so I'd like to suggest that we be scheduled for your next regular session. Which would be the, it's the end of May. May 3rd is canceled already. Yeah. May 3rd is canceled, so it would be May 17th. 17th. Okay, so. And we will work obviously with Mr. Williams, a good friend, because thank goodness I am a lawyer. We'll work it out. Thank you, Mr. Foote. Thank you. All right. So we've got a, so yeah, should I make a, I'll make a motion to table this until we get into writing the clarification of the proffers for the traffic mitigation as was discussed this evening. We got a motion to table it. We got a second. I'm going to start with Mr. Triplett. Hey, Mr. Chairman, just one clarification on the motion. Yes, sir. Yes, Mr. Williams, sorry. Oh boy. We're moving fast here and we didn't even. Was that a motion to table to a specific date or? May 17th. Do you want, do you want a motion to date? I think that would be preferable. Okay. Okay. Motion to a specific date, please. So amend that. Make it to a specific date. Yeah, motion to a specific date. I didn't make it to a specific date. Oh, you did. I did not. I did not make it to a, I just said until they were addressed. Yes. So. Until we put into writing what was, what the proffers had been discussed. All right. So we'll amend that motion for May 17th. All right. So we got a motion to table with amendment of May 17th. Now, Mr. Triplett. Said no. Okay. Okay. Okay. Kozel, yes. Abstain. No. No. No. Current yes. Onder, yes. Brannon? Brannon, no. Brumbach, yes. I see it's working out good. Word, but I'll say yes to that. I'm going to go to the board. I'll go to the board. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It's only a month. Yep. That's exactly how I feel, Mr. Thomas. And chair votes yes. So the motion is approved, and we will see folks in a month. Thank you. And thank you for working with us. And I think this was a good exercise. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Hello, Mr. Klein. Good evening. Signs aren't very popular, so we'll let people clear up. So we see what it is. Okay. We still have a public hearing going on here, folks. Thank you for coming out. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. Ma'am, we still have a public hearing going on. Sorry. So, okay. We have a public hearing regarding ordinance amendment signs. Mr. Klein? Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is an ordinance amendment, which you all have seen previously, that is to amend our sign ordinance to be compliant with the Reed v. Town of Gilbert ruling. And specifically, the changes proposed ensure a content-neutral approach to sign regulations, and we don't run into any First Amendment issues with our regulations of signs, i.e., when we say content-neutral, we mean regulating signs by the type of sign, not by the message contained on the sign. And that's a very important distinction. Much of the existing sign standards, the size, the height, the number, and the location of the signs that are currently contained in our zoning ordinance remain unchanged. References to signs in other sections were also updated and removed where applicable to ensure kind of a clean sweep of the zoning ordinance as it pertains to the sign ordinance. Current zoning ordinance for the signs. I won't read the whole thing, but again, it's established to regulate the number, area, height, and location type of signs, providing adequate signage for businesses and motorists, and enhancing the image, appearance, and economic vitality of the county. I think that's an important part of this ordinance. In addition to those kind of general changes that we made in reorganizing the sign ordinance and cleaning up the text to make sure that it didn't have any references to the messages contained on the signs, there were three changes that were made specifically to the sign ordinance which are important to go through one by one. The first change as it pertains to multi-tenant frontage signs. This is actually a new sign category that we have added in addition to our permitted wall signage allowance. And the proposal is to allow for buildings that contain multiple tenants signage proportional to the linear square footage of those tenant spaces. The current standard applied throughout the county now is that 20% of the wall area, not to exceed 200 square feet, is permitted for the sign area. However, in situations where there's multiple tenants in a space or where there are eight or more tenants, each user should not have a sign larger than 25 square feet. And what happens in some of our shopping centers that you all are familiar with is the anchor tenant eats up a lot of that sign area and the smaller tenants get a very minimal sign area, sometimes as small as 25 square feet. And that's been a problem. And we're redeveloping some of our shopping center sites where there were vacancies and one tenant got a really large sign, ate up all that sign area and then other tenants come in, they get something disproportionate to the size of their frontage and it looks unattractive. So again, this is a change to permit signage proportional to the linear square footage of the building. This is the change that actually came out of the Board of Supervisors discussion and it pertains to electronic signs. The proposal would be to allow the electronic display portion of a sign up to 100% of the sign area. And to allow that the frequency at which that sign display changes would be set at 15 seconds. Electronic signs would also now be permitted in the R.A. Rural Area Zoning District. Currently, the standard as it's administered by the zoning ordinance is we permit a digital display portion of a sign up to 50% of the sign area. And we allow that digital display for special events, banners and other non-static information. We currently have a display change of two minutes. In the ordinance and we don't currently allow electronic signs in the R.A. District, although the zoning administrator has been generous in allowing churches to have electronic displays because they convey a message that's pertinent to their services and whatnot. Again, this change came out of the Board of Supervisors discussion and they asked that it be considered as part of this public hearing. So, wanted to draw your attention to that change. The third change as it pertains to signs in the R.A. Rural Area Zoning District. We have provided a maximum of 10% of the sign area. We have provided a maximum of 10% of the sign area. We have provided a maximum of 10% of the sign area. We have provided a maximum of 10% of the sign area. We have provided a maximum sign area of 50 square feet for allowed uses in the R.A. District. Those would include your farm markets, churches, other business type uses. And the sign sizes permitted would be limited to 50 square feet regardless of the adjoining roadway classification. In all of our other districts, our business districts, industrial districts, we allow sign size proportional to the road fringe that it has. So, if it's on a major collector road, it gets a larger sign size than a local street. Again, this current standard, there isn't really one for R.A. signs. We allow them for conditional use permits. We allow them for cottage occupations, but we don't have a sign standard currently codified for all the other allowed uses in the RA district. So this change would codify what the zoning administrator is already granting to our rural businesses. So this evening, staff is seeking a recommendation from the planning commission to forward to the board of supervisors on this proposed amendment. Specifically, we're seeking any additional feedback or comments you may have on this proposed changes that are before you as it pertains to our multi-tenant signage, our electronic signs, and signs in the RA district. And again, the electronic sign change that is new for you all this evening did come out of the board of supervisors discussion on May 8th. So staff is happy to answer any questions you have. I do have a number of images of signs throughout the county so I can kind of explain some of the nuances to the electronic sign rules and what is permitted currently versus what it could look like if you so choose. Mr. Thomas. Quick question. Where did the 15 seconds come from when the electronic display changes? That was a number discussed at the board of supervisors. I don't know if it had any specific instances where that occurs. Staff did look at what other localities do. We did find that they vary in time as short as eight seconds, that's in Fairfax County, to two minutes like we have. So it does vary considerably. I will be honest with you in driving around and looking at the signs, even the electronic signs we had, aren't on a two minute cycle. It's a little bit faster. It varies depending on the sign. So 15 seconds seems like an appropriate change. We did confirm with VDOT that there was no concern from a traffic and safety standpoint in that number. So it's all clear. It's just a number that the county can set for the display frequency. I guess depending on the speed limit, 15 seconds, if you're going 55 miles an hour, that's about 76 feet per second. So it's a number that the county can set for the display frequency. And so we're looking at about 1,000, 1,200 feet of a driver to look at that sign away from the sign. I was just curious how distracting that would be. Did we ever consider doing it based on the speed limit of the road that we're on? A lower speed limit, you could have a faster change, and it wouldn't be as distracting. A faster speed limit, when you have a quicker change, it kind of, you know, that flashing, if you're driving and you're trying to run, you're going to run, you're going to run. You're going to read the sign while you're looking down and watching where you're going. We took the specific direction from the board to you all. Like I said, in my research, I didn't find any locality that was regulating in that manner. It's usually just kind of one set frequency. I think from an enforcement standpoint, that may present a challenge. Yeah. Any questions? I'm sorry. Mr. Brimbaugh? Sure. I was going to ask, I would like you to give a show of examples. Sure. So this is an existing electronic display sign that's in the county. You all will recognize the business. It's out on Route 11 North. This sign conforms to our current zoning ordinance standard. It's about a 15-foot tall sign with about a 50-square-foot sign area. Again, you have, under the current regulations, they're given a 50% of the sign area is allocated to that kind of non-static display. That's the North Park Plaza and the main kind of anchor tenant up there, which is Past and Present Antiques. And then there's an electronic display board that changes between the different entities up there and advertises things like trivia nights, specials, live music, and et cetera. And the sign does change at a speed that is faster than two minutes. So, Tyler, real quickly. So basically, under the new way it was written at 100%, then, that entire sign is now in the state. So, you're saying that the entire sign could be electronic? Yes, sir. And as I show some of the other examples, you'll see how, you'll see what that may look like on other roadways. So, you could see, so there could be one backseat one rotating, the Past and Present could be digital and rotating, and the North Park Plaza could be digital and rotating. Correct. And they don't have the same time. They might not be rotating on the same schedule. All right. Okay. And so, what type of issue does that create for drivers as they're driving down the road and now they have more signs to read going down the line? Wait, wait, wait. It'd be one electronic display, not three separate displays, but it'd be one, the whole area would be one large display changing all at one time. Okay. Clarify that. So, it could be, it would go backseat, then it would go Past and Present, then it go, or whatever they want. It could also display all three messages at once, but what you're looking at there is one sign. Correct. Okay. That's all I got. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Williams. Here's another example. This sign is actually out in our rural areas. It's on Macedonia Church Road. It is a church sign, obviously. Again, it is about 50 square feet in size and about 12 feet in height. Again, the top portion of the sign is your non-static display displaying the name of the church, and the bottom sign is your static, is your non-static message board, which has the services and studies and things that were going on there alternating. I'm sorry. That's the maximum size. That's the maximum size that would be allowed right now. Yeah. So, Tyler. Just, this represents exactly what the backseat sign represented. So, this is one sign. Half of it can be changed around, half of it not. The backseat sign, even though it looked like three different signs, but that was considered one sign. Correct. Half of it being digital and the other being static. Yes, sir. Okay. All right. Thank you. And same principle. I got you. This is on Tasker Road, or sorry, Warrior Drive. The top portion of the sign doesn't change. It's the gas station and the handy mart at the bottom. It's part of the sign, the 50% of the sign area, alternated with some of the other businesses and specials and things that were going on at that. And you can actually see the picture actually captures it changing its animation. This is an existing sign. It is not a electronic message sign, but I wanted to give you a sign. And think about if this was fully digital, what it may look like. This is on Route 277 and Stickley Drive outside of the town of Stephen City. Again, this is a multi-tenant sign. It is approximately 100 square feet. It's about 20, 22 feet tall. Again, multiple tenants on there. But if it was fully digital, you'd see that from a point of distance. You could see it probably across the interstate. So under that new way that was being proposed. You could retrofit that sign and make it 100% digital. I'm trying to understand what problem we're trying to fix. You know, because the sign's the way, the ordinance is the way it was at 50%. I just, what problem are we trying to fix by any means? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. There wasn't a ton of discussion at the board supervisors meeting. The board member who made the proposal had been approached by someone that would like to have a 100% digital sign. And that's about as much context as we got. We just took it forward as we were directed. And in your research, other jurisdictions, what type of sign ordinance do they have when it comes to this type stuff? Looking around, I did not find anyone that permitted a 100% digital sign. I mean, most localities permit some kind of proportion. To the total sign area, most of the localities, it was 50%. Okay. And some of our neighbors, Warren County, Chindola County, actually prohibit these kind of electronic display signs altogether. They only allow an electronic display for gas, time, and weather, temperature. Okay. So what it currently is now is consistent with what other localities are doing at the very least. And some are even less. I found that we are more generous than other localities. Okay. Presently. Presently at 50%. Yes. Thank you. Just another example. Probably the last one I'll cover. But this is a multi-tenant sign on Route 50 West. And the sign, this is about a 25-foot tall sign structure. And they have about 120-ish square feet of sign area. So, again, you can visualize in your head, if it was digital, what that may look like. So just some context as you all consider this amendment. Thank you for doing this. Thank you for giving us. Yeah, the pictures were great. I'll explain it that way. I do know as you go into Fredericksburg and locations down in D.C., they have 100% digital signs. And some of them are quite large. I mean, some of them are. And those are, you see the digital billboards. That type of sign is actually prohibited in our ordinance. So we wouldn't have that kind of 300-square-foot one. But I, exactly, you're hitting the nail on the head what it looks like. And these are not for billboard, right? These are for the sign for the business on the property of the business. For the monument. For the monument-style signs that we, the freestanding monument signs that we have. We permit, yes. Right. The county does not. Billboards are excluded from our ordinance. Got it. Tyler, can we make a, can we propose to accept the proposed changes except for this electronic signage and keep that, the 50%, the way that it is currently? You all can make any motion. As with Fruit Hill, you all can make any motion that you would like to send forward. Again, we call it the tension that, like, if you all have comments on the specifics of the change, calling those out would be appropriate. Is everybody in agreement? Well, we've got to do a public hearing. This is a public hearing. Dennis is going to get up here and complain about this one. Okay. Are we good with the questions for Mr. Klein? All right. At this time, I open this public hearing to anyone who may want to step forward. State your name, Magisterial District, and give me three minutes. And I see no one running up. We're closing the public hearing. Now we have the discussion. You know, for me, why would we, I mean, there's enough people. We've got a whole world of distractions driving, and now we're going to add to it by going up to 100%. And on top of that, the RA area. I mean, you know, I just don't want to see light pollution. I really don't. So I had to throw that one out there. I'm okay with the 15 seconds, because, I mean, one, two, three. I mean, I'm okay with, as Mr. Klein mentioned, that a lot of the electronic signs are not cycling at two minutes right now anyways, and how are you going to enforce? I think 15 seconds is reasonable. That's not overdone. I'm okay with 15 seconds, but the 100%, I don't think, is necessary. All right. Any discussion over here? Well, I can understand why a business would want 100%. It's much easier to change. They can update it daily or every 15 minutes if they want to. I do think the 15 seconds, again, if you're traveling at 60 miles an hour, you're going 88 feet per second. So you travel that, you cover quite a bit of distance in 15 seconds. You know, too fast, I think, is a little more, when it rotates faster, I think you get more of a visual distraction to drivers. But now, how do you regulate that? You know, I don't have a good answer for that. Certainly, I'd rather see a half minute instead of 15 seconds, but, you know, I don't know. As long as it's a monument sign in front of a business, I'm not sure it makes a whole lot of difference, but I do think 15 seconds is a little fast. But, Ms. Brubach, you're good. I agree on the light pollution. I'm not a fan of light pollution. I like my rural areas dark. But anyway, my former employer had an electronic sign, and I know things have changed and gotten better, but always had trouble cycling, getting it updated, it not working, have to call the sign guy. So, I mean, I think the bigger you make it, the more problems you might have it being more distracting because of blips in the system. All right. Ms. Brannon, you have anything? I guess I don't understand why people object to signs. I mean, I see them on the side of the road telling me about construction coming that's 100% electronic. I've seen it driving in the D.C. I agree. We don't want billboards that look like a big, hot city, but as far as the maintenance, that's up to the owner of the business. I'm fine with it. I'm fine with it the way it is. All righty. I'm going to let Ms. Kozel start to make a motion. Now you get your shot. I would like to make a motion to approve the ordinance sign amendment currently as it's been changed, except for the electronic sign. You want to leave that? I want to leave that as is with the 50% electronic signage. And are we keeping the 15 seconds in there? Yeah, we're going to keep the 15 seconds. Okay. Do I have a second? Second. All right. We've got a motion. We've got a second. I will start down to this end. No. Right in now. Brumback, yes. Thomas, no. Triplett? Triplett, no. Akins, no. Interesting. Kozel, yes. Manuel, no. Kern, yes. Orndorff, yes. Julia votes yes. So we've got one, two, three, four, five. Five. Did you count that? I hope you kept up with that. I was paying attention. Who was on first and what was it? What did you vote? No. Yes or no? No. Two, three. Five. We have ten people. Five. We've got five. Five no's. Five. No, we have five yeses. Yeah, I think it was a tie. Paige, you voted no as well, right? Paige voted no. Five. Five. All right. So the motion fails then. I'll just make a comment. I would like to have seen a comment before we did. You went straight to her and didn't ask for our comments on this end. An internally illuminated sign, I have plenty of monument signs, an internally illuminated sign is going to create, I would go to say, the same amount of light pollution as a static sign that is digital. And so if it's 100% illuminated, if the ordinance is allowing an illuminated sign for 100% and we're regulating it to 15 seconds or whatever it is on the changing, the only statement I would make is that all of them would have to change at the same time so you wouldn't have multiple things flashing. Okay? So if you had five different signs and they were to change. It's one sign. It's one sign. It's one sign. It's one sign. It's one sign. A static sign has to be one sign. So if it's one sign, then that doesn't even come into play. That was my misunderstanding. But at the end of the day, my point is, is the reason I voted no is that there's really not any more light pollution here. But clarification on the one sign changing. If it's storefront signs and you have a strip mall with eight frontages, you could have a digital sign, you could have eight digital signs. That's correct. All changing at different times. That's correct. Right? Yeah. And are you talking about on a strip retail similar to the example that Mr. Klein, where there are wall signs? Right. That could be eight different signs. I think the example most people are debating are multi-tenant signs on the road frontage, similar to the backseat grill example as to whether or not multi-tenant signs are all individual panels that change at one time. And I believe our interpretation of a multi-tenant sign would require, I believe our interpretation of a multi-tenant sign would require, that would require them to be a singular LED or screen face that would all change at once. Because it's a singular sign still, even though there's multiple panels. However, to your point, Mr. Thomas, somebody could do many electronic signs on a retail front over each tenant space and have those change accordingly. Does that answer your question? Yes. They could now, and it would just have to be 50%. That's right. So, yeah. Okay. Mr. Chairman, to point of clarification, the vote was 5-5. The matter still goes forward to the Board of Supervisors, because if the Commission had voted against it, it would be a recommendation of denial. So, in essence, it's not a recommendation to approve it. All right. So, then this will go before the Board of Supervisors on May 10th. Right? Yeah. And if the Commission did want to suggest another motion, you're able to, but you don't have to. Well, so. For clarity. Commissioners, you have the option, if you want to make another motion, to send before up to the Board of Supervisors. Does anyone change their mind? I'll make a motion. All right. Mrs. Brandon. To pass it how it's written. So, you want to pass with 100%? Yes. All right. We have a motion to write the, to send the ordinance before the Board of Supervisors at 100%. Do I have a second? Akins will second. All right. We've got a motion. We've got a second. I'm starting down on Mr. Triplett's side this time. Akins, yes. Kozell, no. Emanuel, yes. Kearns, no. Orndorff, no. Me? Brandon, yes. Rumbach, no. Thomas, yes. So, we've still got time. Yeah. And the chair votes no. So, it's going before the Board of Supervisors, as is. So, they got two shots at it. Look forward to hearing that conversation at the Board of Supervisors level. Wait a minute. Okay. Other, anything other? Mr. Pearson? Well, first off, may I, I want to announce, well, I'm going to, we're making an appointment for the DRRC. We've got a former planning commissioner. He's willing to step up. So, we're going to have Richard Ruckman on the DRRC. And we really, truly appreciate him stepping forward. And that's going to be a great addition to the DRRC. So, I appreciate that. We appreciate that. Now, Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The only two current planning applications to note is Snowden Bridge is continuing pace of their development and has submitted a subdivision design plan for an additional age-restricted section within their existing approvals. And then, some of you may remember the Willow Run. That was a project that was recently down zoned. That project has submitted changes to their subdivision design plan and they're working towards final approvals on that as well. Happy to answer any questions you all might have. Thanks, sir. At this point, I'm going to say, do I have a motion to adjourn? So moved. We are adjourned.
