Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2021-06-02
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=95
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the liaison to the Planning Commission from the Board of Supervisors, I realize that my role in the Planning Commission's deliberations and decision-making is very limited. And I also realize that whether the Planning Commission recommends approval or disapproval of the One Logistics Park application this evening, it will be referred for final decision-making to the Board of Supervisors. And I will have my chance, and the people of the Shawnee District will have a chance to express themselves about the application at a public hearing in July. So without being too conclusory, I would like to express my thanks to the many Shawnee residents who came out for this important meeting this evening. Your presence shows your deep concern about our community and the potential impact of this rezoning audit. Mr. Chairman, at the work session, I would like to thank you for your time and your support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, at the work session on this application that the Planning Commission held on April 21st, Vice Chairman Thomas asked the applicants to work on finding specific ways and funds for mitigating the traffic that will be generated by this development. And there are indications that such resources may not have been found. In conclusion, I would like to share the hope that no one attending this meeting tonight wants to leave the residents of the Shawnee District with a letter. with a monstrous tidal wave of heavy trucks and tractor trailers that would threaten their safety and quality of life. Thank you for this opportunity. Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Supervisor. Before we leave our committee reports, I do have to make one announcement. Mr. Marston, Rose Marston's going off as liaison from the Planning Commission to Frederick Water. And in his place, we appointing John Jewell will take his place as the representative from Planning Commission as liaison over to Frederick Water. And as a little housekeeping, is this Mr. Marston's last meeting with us or do you have one more this month? This is the last meeting. It's been a pleasure. I'm sure we'll recognize that in the future real soon. But I'd like to say thank you to all my fellow commissioners. It's been a pleasure working with all of you all. And I thank you for your help and your respect you've shown towards me. And these guys sitting over here, staff, we cannot thank them enough. They've always been there for me when I needed them and give me good answers. And it's been a pleasure serving on this board. And, but I think after eight years and 79 years of age, we need some younger blood. So thank you very much and thank you for the opportunity. Thank you for your service and it's been a pleasure having you, sir. Thank you, Captain. Thank you, sir. All right, that's our housekeeping. We'll go to some citizen comment portion of our meeting. And I want just to make a brief announcement. We have two items on our agenda. We have two items on our agenda tonight. Very sizable items, judging by the size of the participants we have here and in the crowd that we have tonight. One is a public hearing. The other one is an action item that's already had the public hearing held. It was held back in March. But I am making one allowance tonight. When I make this announcement, this is citizen comment portion of anything that's not on our agenda. I'm speaking specifically of those two items there, but I'm making one exception because we had a request that come in from the homeowners of the Ravensburg, I believe, that they have a representative. And I will allow that speaker to speak for a brief three minutes. And so at this time, I'll make the announcement for citizen comments. But it's for any items that's not on our agenda tonight other than because we do have one public hearing. Seeing no one, I will recognize the gentleman that's representing the homeowners from the Ravens. Excuse me just a second. Do you have a... I'd like a comment about the... Is it about one of the rezonings tonight? No, sir. No, sir. I'm just allowing this one speaker. I was notified he was the representative for all of you. Uh-huh. Yes, sir. Good evening, sir. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak this evening. My name is William Melvin, and I'm the president of the Raven Point Homeowners Association, a community of 120 homes in the Shawnee District adjacent to Governor's Hill across US 50 Millwood Pike. Our HOA is opposed to the proposed development plan put forth in rezoning action. Application 01-21, One Logistics Park, Governor's Hill, which is on your agenda for consideration tonight. We have previously submitted a written statement outlining our objectives, and I ask that our statement be included in the official record of this proceeding. Joining me here are residents of our community along with residents of our neighbors in Raven Wing and Oakdale Crossing communities. Collectively, there are almost 500 homes in our combined community, and we are committed to providing the best possible care for all of our communities, soon to be joined by an additional 144 in Raven Oaks, now under construction. I will not read our formal statement as there's not enough time. However, I can summarize the points we have raised. The project as proposed raises major public safety concerns because of the configuration of the proposed coverstone extension dumping out trucks onto Millwood Pike at Inverleigh Way. Vehicles traveling on Millwood Pike exceed the speed limit, 55 miles per hour already, and with up to 10,000 projected vehicles, many of them tractor-trailers, entering and exiting Millwood Pike and Inverleigh Way, 24 hours a day will create a dangerous intersection. Schoolchildren are discharged from their buses at that intersection, and many of our neighborhood children plus adult pedestrians would be drawn to the planned market convenience store that would be located near the intersection. The traffic analysis supporting the application rely on real-time data going back 12 years to 2008. The information is incomplete in that it does not take into account traffic that will be generated from Raven Oaks, and it ignores the traffic impacts of the new FBI building and Navy Federal. The reconstruction of the nearby I-81 intersection will not increase capacity for traffic and new major bottlenecks, are bound to arise. As a logistics depot serving an interstate market, this project will benefit communities elsewhere, while burdening Frederick County with a traffic nightmare. The loss of tax revenue with the rezoning change should be taken into account. No consideration is given in the application to routing the Coverstone extension around the east side of the project, where traffic could enter and exit, at Sulphur Springs Road, which has an upgraded intersection and traffic signals. The question before you is whether Frederick County and its residents will benefit from the proposed project, and the answer is no. We ask that the application be rejected. I now ask that my neighbors to rise and be recognized in their opposition. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thanks for giving the brief. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it. Chairman, I have to recuse from discussions in this application. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Manuel. Okay. Now, Page, we're not on one logistics yet so the first one we have is a different one so, that's all right. That's all right. That's okay. We'll keep you going. Our next item on the agenda that we close the citizen comment portion of our meeting tonight? Our next item is a public hearing item. This is rezoning for 02-21 for the Greystone Properties LLC and White Properties, Mrs. Perkins. Mr. Chairman. Yes. I have to recuse myself from the discussion on this application. So you're going to recuse for both, I guess? Yes, sir. Okay. HB, me too, and I have to recuse myself. I got two recused. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Commission, this is a proposal to develop 119.27 acres, or to rezone 119 acres from the R4 Residential Planned Community District with proffers to the RP, Residential Performance District with proffers, and 238 acres from the R4 District to the RA, Rural Areas District, with proffers, for a total of 357 acres. If I could turn to you the screen on your left, the subject properties are outlined in blue. They are located east of Route 37, which is at this location, north of Cedar Creek Grade, and south of the city of Winchester, which you can see is in this shaded area, and also you have Merriman's Lane in the northern area. Now, you may recall the subject properties are part of the original Willow Run development, which was approved back in 2007. It was revised in 2009 and 2012. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. residential units. As far as the comprehensive plan for this area, the site is located within the limits of the Western Jubilee land use plan of the 2035 comprehensive plan. Now that plan identifies the site with a mix of commercial and residential land uses which is consistent with the current zoning of the site. Now furthermore the residential areas shown in the comprehensive plan outline a proposed density of about four units per acre. Now the transportation network called for by the comprehensive plan shows the extension of Jubilee Drive as an east-west through road and the construction of a new interchange for Route 37 and again the master development plan of the 37 and the interchange. It also calls for that major collector roadway to facilitate north-south movement between Jubilee and Cedar Creek grade. The plan also does call for other means of transportation shutters. So the transportation network calls for a major collector roadway to facilitate north-south movement between Jubilee and Cedar Creek grade. The plan also does call for other means of transportation shutters. such as trails, bicycle facilities, and other pedestrian accommodations. Now to jump right into the actual application and what is being proposed for the 119 acres that is requested to go to the from the R4 district to the RP district they're proposing a maximum of 300 age-restricted dwelling units to be limited to single-family small lot units. They are requesting to utilize a complete network of private streets with a gated access on Cedar Creek grade. I would note that that complete the complete construction of private streets is a board waiver that will have to be determined by the Board of Supervisors at when they consider this item but there's a monetary profit of $308 per unit which is consistent with our current capital impact model. I would note that residential generally is supported within the area of this property in the comprehensive plan. Now for the 238 acres that they're requesting to zone from the R4 district to the RA district the current zoning of this area in the R4 it's a it shows a mix of commercial and residential units again that zoning is consistent with the comprehensive plan. If they were to down zone the property to the RA district there is the potential for 47 by right five acre residential lots and that type of use would be inconsistent with the comprehensive plan currently in place. So I would note that the R4 is a good example of a potential potential development plan that would be consistent with the R4 that we're currently adopting. With the proffer that's before you the applicant has proffered 9,078 units per single-family lot that would be developed in the RA. I would note that's consistent with the 2006-2007 rezoning. The current model shows an impact of a little over $22,000 per residential unit on capital facilities. And I would also note that the potential for a residentialивde scribble inudit spongy then терри above the California Convention website being able to digitize a 30-meter stully town for research announcement for the juro room. is filling in the rest of our click. as an addition to Candice's review that she has done already. Just a reminder, from a transportation perspective, your current proffers provide construction of the comprehensive plan extension of Jobar Early Drive with the Merriman's Lane realignment. They include the construction of a new interchange with Route 37 between that Jobar Early extension and Route 37, and an additional public north-south connector roadway from future Jobar Early Drive extension all the way down to Cedar Creek grade. And, of course, it also includes bicycle and pedestrian amenities throughout the development. The current proposal trims back on that a little bit. The access is entirely from Cedar Creek grade. You do have just proffered right-of-way only for 25 years, not in terms of only 25 years, but you're only getting right-of-way as opposed to construction, for future Jobar Early Drive. And Merriman's Lane realignment in the proposed RA parcel. You do have proffered right-of-way for Jobar Early Drive across the parcels that are proposed for RP zoning that does not have a sunset on it. Creates a private connection to Cedar Creek grade in the location of the former public north-south connection from Jobar Early Drive to Cedar Creek grade. And it does not provide a public system of bicycle and pedestrian accommodation in the area. To be fair, I know they've been working on that. That's been one of our comments, but there's been some struggles there. Just to jump into this general graphic, of course, this would be the resulting zoning should the board approve. Everything that is in white would become RA, although you do see the reserved for 25 years right-of-way for Jobar Early and the Merriman's Lane. realignment and then you see through the RP parcel the other portion of Juba Early back toward existing Juba Early Drive in the city of Winchester. Before I get to the design of the intersection roughly here is your north-south connection down to Cedar Creek grade which is right at the very bottom of your graphic. And just to focus in a little more on that intersection this is an unsignalized intersection that's not necessarily a complaint just a fact it does not mean signal warrants but we did in the initial review of the TIA run into some concern whereby while level of service was maintained at acceptable levels on Cedar Creek grade itself the level of service for folks trying to get out of the subdivision that is proposed was at a D. This was a concern on a number of levels. One, we never like to see low level service that's always going to be a concern but two, this is a proposed age-restricted subdivision so it's a little, you know, as folks are entering their golden years so to speak it's a little more challenging to deal with rough traffic situations and having to deal with backups at their entrance was not going to lead to good outcomes was our concern. The applicant was responsive to this and did come up with a fairly in concert with VDOT a a fairly unique exiting scenario so it's easier to see in your packet but remember the concern was for the exiting traffic particularly the left turn so what you see actually here is a protected receiving lane for folks turning left out of the development that ends up with a merge area further downstream to just make things a little easier when that was retested that did show acceptable levels of service. With that from a staff perspective it's fairly cut and dried between what is on the books today and what is being proposed. This is a public hearing item as was noted earlier. Staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the board and Mr. Evan Wyatt is here on behalf of the applicant. Thank you, sir. Mr. Bishop? Yes, we have one question. Mr Thomas? The current rezoning is really a challenge. is based on having almost 1,400 residents there. Yes. So we're looking at a lot of, you know, we're looking at probably one or two additional schools that would need to be built to take care of those kids and a lot of traffic from that. Now, we're going to go to 300 age-restricted houses, no kids, and 47 RP-style or RA-style lots. Right. So you're looking at a significant reduction in traffic in children coming out of there. So not having Jubal Early Extension and the Merrimans Lane Extension, how detrimental is that since we're reducing the traffic, you know, significantly? I mean, we're going from 20,000 trips down to significantly, you know, 1,000 probably. First, to properly answer that question, we would frankly need to run it through the regional model. But my comment would be, regarding the concern of Jubal Early itself, and of course we do have the right-of-way for 25 years, although with how difficult it is to fund projects, 25 years still worries me, is that it's a regional in nature improvement. So whether this development was happening at all, we would still be calling for that improvement, and frankly it was on the comprehensive plan prior to the Willow Run rezoning. So what you're saying is we need, we need to keep the right-of-ways and the ability to build the roads through there, not necessarily, I mean, economically obviously, the current rezoning is not going to stand up because it, they haven't done anything in a lot of years. They haven't done it yet, yeah. So, your biggest concern is losing the right-of-way for Jubal Early. Yeah, we would be very concerned about losing the ability to do that project. Thank you. Bishop, how much did they re, when we did Merriman's Lane, did the overpass of 37 there at the Rock Harbor golf course entry, how much was that reshaped, redone? Wasn't that quite a concerted effort at that point? It absolutely was. There's still an open permit on that project, at least is or for not much longer will be. They progressed, let me get back to a picture just for everyone's benefit, and, I thought we had a bigger one back here somewhere. Maybe I lied. This will do the job. But yes, of course, here you have Rock Harbor golf course right here. You've got the proposed interchange here and while you can't, I know I can't see with my glasses, you've got roundabouts on either side. This is, this was designed in an approved design. And for that matter, Jubal Early Drive itself was virtually all approved to design, with the exception of this segment right here. I feel like it's a little bit too much. You can see where I'm pointing at right at the intersection of Realign Merrimans and Jubal Early, and that had more to do with a disagreement over an entrance VDOT didn't want there than it was or anything else. Other than that, this project was designed. As a matter of fact, later on down the road, probably five years ago or so now, I'd have to double check the dates. We had even come in and done, at the request of the applicant, two rounds of revenue sharing applications and secured nearly $10 million in state funds to add to the pot. Unfortunately, when it came time to try and move forward on that, you had multiple property owners involved and it just, it wasn't able to come together. So there was a lot of efforts on both sides, not even just the counties, on the applicant side as well. I don't want to be unfair to them, but it just didn't come together. So yeah, there was, there was a lot going on. Now I do expect that next time that permit comes up for renewal, for that break in access to Route 37, for the design that was done, I, they will not continue to keep that open. They've already, VDOT's already kept it open. Much longer than frankly they preferred to. So we are in a lot of ways going to go back to the drawing board with the project. I wind up asking the applicant this question, but I knew there was somewhere in the recesses of my brain somewhere where there was also agreements with water and sewer. And I don't know if you know, Mr. Oates, where those are located out there, because I know that there was some other arrangements. I thought that there was access across that part of Merriman's Lane and what have you. But I may be, off on a different tangent there. I'm peripherally aware that there was work of that type done, but I'm not the best person to answer. And I believe there are people here, perhaps Mr. Wyatt. I don't know if Mr. Oates got involved at all, but I believe we can get that answer for you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. This time we'd like to have the applicant come forward. Mr. Evan White with Greenwood Engineering. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the committee. Thank you,ensa. It was good to be here with you here, members of the commission. First of all, it's good to see faces again. So hopefully the rest of the commission will be joining you all in this locationarn the not too distant future. What I'd like to do is maybe circle back on a couple of things for the project. And I'm probably going to need to go you of course was what we got rezoned back in 2007 and a couple things that you might remember for those of you that were on the Commission was that when we did that rezoning everything that you saw that they discussed was a proffered item so there was a proffered development plan for how the project would advance over time there was a proffered generalized development plan which was the colored drawing that staff showed you and then there were also proffered community design modifications for the development of the project now that's a very important thing to recognize because once a project is rezoned in order to develop that project moving forward the plans that come forward to you all for approval for construction have to substantially conform to the general generalized development plan to the community design modifications etc so once once this project went through entitlement which was during the boom times of course we hit the recession and then it sat there for a while and as John talked about during that time both sides the county VDOT and the developers tried very hard to preserve the Jubal early drive construction project but what's happened since then of course as John just mentioned the revenue-sharing funds have been deallocated so there's no financial method to build the road and then the other thing that wasn't mentioned but I think is important the area on the exhibit that shown in white which was previously owned by Miller and Smith is now owned by the white family properties so Miller and Smith which was the development partner is no longer a property owner has any ownership interest in this now the white family who owns the property they currently use the property for agricultural use and they currently use it for open space they're not developers nor do they want to be so where we are now we are kind of hitting the redo button so to speak and the property owners that are still involved the properties in the yellow or graystone properties are the ones that are not in the property that are still in the property and what they desire to do with the property is to convert it from a mixed-use both non age-restricted an age-restricted project is completely age-restricted and then as I said before the white family properties desire not to do any development whatsoever and keep that so that's kind of the state of where we are from where we started in 2007 with the Scriptures where was 2008 when came VHR呢 the the Fantastic Company and was produced under the same name so I can hatsas denimes CUBE at the bottom of the state a thyme logo kne dizerrocca at the top there yet there were still vertebrae our viah tapsas denimesравnak quoi of time working with VDOT and transportation on a solution that was acceptable for Cedar Creek grade and all of that's proffered the other thing with the property in the yellow you can see the portion of Jubal early drive that's in gray that's being dedicated to the county along with the subdivision plats that would be prepared for the age-restricted project and the reason we're dedicating that outright to the county is because since this is a development project if you didn't do it at this point in time that would be a lost opportunity so the issues that have been raised by staff are really more I think technical in nature and they result to taking an R for 240 ish acres of land and going from that to to an RA a rural area and you know staff is correct in saying that if you're in a rural area you're going to have to take some extra classes with that in place so and so there and that we are trying to get how you can build the project in a overall system that not only inside the city of Mason yes we have to ground that soil the soil the same kind of immerse that process with the wastewater system the installation management so that we for a reason really going to be involved in in each aspect of this project so that we get information there theystem to be used and so we donc you must go back and forgotten in order to truly deal with it on the ground as we go on the ground so well thank you for that and next Mr. Compass don't about this project, if it would be rezoned, to what you see right here, it would result in a reduction of about 1,250 non-age-restricted dwelling units. And that would mean a reduction of about 465 school students that would be generated based on the information we have from the previous project. And then the comment that Mr. Thomas was talking about, if you look at the traffic study from the original rezoning and you review it compared to this traffic study, there would be a reduction of about 22,750 average vehicle trips on a daily basis. So it is, once again, a very significant reduction of impact of what's currently entitled by the county. Now, the one thing that I do think is important, if the county did rezone this back to RA, where is the risk to the county? And of course, several years ago, the county adopted a Transfer of Development Rights program. And that allows properties that are zoned agricultural that are in the urban development area to realize higher density development. So the one thing that we did make sure was proffered as being prohibited within the white areas, the 238 acres, we prohibit the use of TDRs if this rezoning is approved. So once again, if you're looking at risk to the county, in our opinion, that's definitely the one that you should be paying attention to. As far as the white properties, again, the discussion about the reservation of right of way, which is shown in the dashed line. I don't know if this will show up or not on the screen. It's right through here, and then Merriman's Lane right there. Those were part of the original design that John was mentioning in his staff report. So what we thought would be appropriate and fair to the county would be that if this property did go back to agricultural use, that there was an opportunity for that right of way to become dedicated to the county at no cost. We felt that a 20-year window was sufficient and fair. Staff had reached out to us, and we've been able to get them. We've reached out to us to see if we could bump it up a little bit, and the property owners were willing to go to 25. Now, for all of us that own property, I would think that if somebody was expecting you to set aside your property forever, you would probably not be very interested in that. But more importantly, I think the thing that we need to remember now, based on the current development project, there is no right of way dedication for Jubal Early Drive, and there is no right of way dedication for Merriman's Lane. Those rights of ways were going to come into the state as the sections of the road were built. So if this project, as it's currently zoned, doesn't build anything, there is no right of way. So this is actually an opportunity to get right of way that's not there, because obviously, if the property's not rezoned, nobody's going to build the road. And if nobody builds the road, and then a funding opportunity does come in, that's since you're going to have to buy land at R4 value, as opposed to 25 years down the road at RA value if nothing happens. Excuse me. So in summary, the rezoning is necessary to undo what's proffered, because we can't do that project. What we're offering is an age-restricted project, and then we're offering a rural area project, which tries to assist the county with things right away. Some additional proffer dollars that are consistent if there would be rural area lots that are developed. And as you know, rural area lots do not pay cash proffers to the county, so we felt that was a fair approach also. So I think with that said, I'll be happy to answer any questions. Thank you, sir. Any questions for Mr. Wyatt? Mr. Wyatt. Okay. The intersection of Cedar Creek Green, my cataracts won't let me look at all those fine lines in there, so that thing looks like an accident waiting to happen to me. Where is Harvest Ridge people? How close are they to coming into that intersection? This is going to be difficult, but I'll try to do this without a good laser pointer. So once again, you see a lot of lines on the map. What we tried to do is demonstrate with the red lines, what the actual physical road improvements are going to be for Cedar Creek grade. And then you see some light blue lines off to the bottom left. And a couple things have happened since the original rezoning. VDOT has requested that we provide longer turn lane and taper lanes for left turn lanes and right turn lanes. Previously, they were 100 feet in each direction. VDOT was looking for 200. So what you see on the south side, you see the red lines, those are 200 foot turn and taper lanes. And that resulted in us needing to go negotiate right away with an adjoining property owner. And we were successful. The primary concern with the entrance coming onto Cedar Creek grade, but once again, remember that's the same entrance that was approved in 2007, is that the side street, which would be our traffic coming onto Cedar Creek grade, the side street warrants do not meet, well, would be required for a traffic light. Okay. So VDOT and us, and even the city of Winchester worked on what you see to the right going north into the city. And what we're doing is we are creating a area where traffic can turn out of our project into a lane that's protected, and then ultimately merge into the through lane heading towards Valley Avenue at the city. That required us to do, that required us to do some improvements and work with the city to allow for some median extension and some restriping and things of that nature. So basically what you see here is 200 foot turn lane left going in if you're heading towards the city. If you're coming from the city towards Route 37, there's a right turn lane and taper. And if you're coming from Route 37, you're going to be turning left and you're going to be turning right and you're going to be turning left. So you're going to be turning right and you're going to be turning left. But then you're going to have to go through lanes that are unrestricted, so traffic keeps flowing the way it does today. And then traffic turning out of our project left, there is a area, a separate lane that's protected with a raised median that they can get into safely, and then ultimately merge about 200 feet down the road into the through lane. So that's what all that. And then when you get towards Route 37, out of Harvest Ridge, that gets real hairy there at that place. Now when they go out of there going towards Route 11, it's no problem. They just breeze right out in the lane, which I kind of understand that's what you're talking about here with these lanes that they can turn right into. So. Yeah, the other thing to be aware of with our project, where you see the topography on the north side of the entrance, that's all the frontage we have on Cedar Creek. I know. And so yeah, we actually went through probably a good four to six months of design collaboration with VDOT and the county, and ultimately what this improvement is deemed to be sufficient to give protected left turn movements and where people weren't sitting at the entrance waiting to turn for a minute and a half. Is that one of a kind so far? To my knowledge. And why did you say we couldn't have a Sigma, so you said there's a VDOT, is there a stop light, or is there a cross road, or what's the intersection there? Well, VDOT's probably better versed to answer this, but the short of it is whenever you propose a stop light, they don't only look at the main road where most of the traffic is, they look at the side streets. And there's a series of criteria that have to be met in order to qualify, and this would not qualify. Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. What? Mr. Thomas? Two questions. That left turn, dedicated lane, coming out there. It, I think, You said it's a raised median. Is it raised on both sides of the car or just one? It's raised in parallel with the eastbound traffic going into the city. So the westbound traffic coming out, it'll look like they're turning into their lane? No, because there will be striping that shows the lane markings. And once again, when we looked at this with VDOT, you can kind of see middle of the design going up, and then there's a tie-in to that raised median in the city, which is a little hard to see with the light blue median. So all that is a combination of extended median and striping. And then coming out of our project, there will be directional markings for traffic to direct them into that lane. The other question is, I know 25 years seems like a long time, and it is a long time, but not in VDOT standards. So is there a possibility of extending that right-of-way pickup for Jubal Early to 30 years or 35 years? The discussion we had with the White family when the project was first being – oops, I'm way into somebody else's project. The project, when we talked with the White family, we suggested to them to assist, and the 20 years is what they were willing to do. After some discussion with staff, we went back to them again, and they reluctantly agreed to 25. So I think 25 is fine, but I guess I'm kind of concerned. You know, I recognize progress. I know there are problems that we have with funding today, but, you know, if we as a community are still chasing that same funding source a quarter of a century from now with no different results, we probably need to start getting more creative and thinking about different ways to do this, because not only this road, but there's a lot of other roads on the county comp plan that are not going to move forward either. Any questions? Mr. White, you say that point there, but this was the one that was before us. So, you know, the promise of a road or – this was the first one before. So, yeah, there is a lot of other roads. I agree with that. One of the things that I did see in your packet here that this is going to be a gated community, right? I mean, and it requires the board of supervisors to sign off on that private road situation. So once it's a gated community, and whether it's 20 years or 15 years down the road, what happens then when you say the whites have no interest in being developers, okay, there's no TDRs like that part, but that right away – and at that point, when they do want to sell, they're not going to sit on this agricultural land forever. Somebody's going to come along. They're going to do the same thing they did before. I mean, they've already have a track record. They did that. So what happens to that gated community that bought in to a gated community, no through traffic, and then all of a sudden now they come back in, and we're going to look – now we've got a right-of-way in place that now we're opening that gated community back up, and now we've got that to deal with. Well, a couple things. I think you're right that the only opportunity for something different to happen is for another development group to come in and negotiate and purchase the property. But before we go to the gated community comment, but that's really where the county has the next opportunity to revisit the comp plan based on what that particular group would want to do. And, of course, I'm sure the expectation of any higher-density development partner is going to be road construction. So I think for the county, if you're looking for a development interest to build the road, that's how that would happen. Now back to the comment about the gated community. What we desire, which is consistent with a lot of age-restricted projects, is to have a gated community with a complete system of private streets. The way the county zoning ordinance is written, that requires a waiver by the Board of Supervisors, so we cannot proffer that we're going to do that, but we have proffered that we will do certain things if that waiver is granted. So if the waiver is granted, there would be – where the dot is at Cedar Creek grade and the dot where future Jubal Early Drive would be, those would be gated points of access. There would be a design coming in where there would be a recovery turnaround area if you got in and you weren't supposed to be there, et cetera. And there would be sufficient lengths of traffic didn't back up onto either road. There's nothing in the proffer that says if Jubal Early Drive is constructed, that that would revert to a public street. It would still be a gated age-restricted community. So if people did – if this did get approved and people did buy into that project, they would be buying into an age-restricted gated community, and they would control the streets. Not to look too far in the future, but in that 200 and some odd acres, 47 lots, the access to that would be from where? Well, once again, I know staff had, you know, once again, from a technical standpoint, they're obligated to report to you what the buy right impact was, and that could be by this rezoning and it would be 47 five-acre lots. That doesn't mean that that's going to happen. But if it did happen, the access to that is currently along Merriman's Lane, which follows where Merriman's Chase is in the yellow on the top of the screen all the way down to where it crosses 37. So if that scenario happened, they would have to build a state street off of Merriman's Lane into the area where – Where you see white. A being? Well, if it was being developed by the white family who – The developer would be responsible. Right, correct. Not the taxpayers. Correct. Okay. All right. One of the questions I had earlier was about water sewer availability across, I think, Merriman's Lane and on to the other side over there, even over towards the Rock Harbor area golf course and over to that side. Was that a part of some of the original rezoning? Do you recall that, Evan? Yeah. And that could be a discussion we have some other day. It's a fair question. There was a lot of work early on with the – It was Frederick County Sanitation Authority back then, but there was a lot of work to plan for infrastructure that was delivered. There was an agreement where there were cap fees that were being prepaid to offset the debt on the money that was being used for the project for the interest. And then there were some other things that happened, and some things that were being done. And some things that were being done. And some things that were being done. And some things that were being done. And some things that didn't happen one director ago that resulted in the need to reevaluate some things. We worked very closely with Frederick Water on some design things to serve this project because it's a much lower intensity than what was previously planned. And amongst those things, inclusive, there were guarantees for easements for all surrounding properties to tie into our network on the age-restricted project. Thank you. Thank you for that answer. Thank you. Any other questions? I'm sorry I took up so much. Any other questions? Looking around. Thank you, sir. Thank you. This is a public hearing. At this time, I'll open a public hearing. For anyone who would like to come forward and speak to this application, please come forward. State your name and your magisterial district, please. Since we do have a large crowd and probably a long night, I will limit you to three minutes. Good evening. David Williamson, and I'm in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. I'm actually one of the adjoining property owners to the Whites and their farm currently. I'm in favor of this project because we were looking at a bunch of high-density housing that we were actually going to become part of that community at the end of a cul-de-sac and wasn't thrilled about that. So I like the idea of doing this. The one thing that I would ask for consideration on is there are two properties that are going to be in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. That are kind of like where you see that little J-hook is in the red and the white down there. There are two properties there, myself and one other neighbor, that the Whites kind of like surround us there. And the neighbor is R-A, and the Whites are looking to be able to move to R-A, and my property is R-4. And so I think that it would make sense to consider making my property an R-A property because I would be completely surrounded by R-A properties. So I would ask for that concession. It's 277 Orchard Lane is the address. Thank you. Contact staff. Anyone else? It's a public hearing. Please come forward. Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing. This is discussion. Any other questions, discussion among commissioners? Looking around. It's hard to see. You're blending. I'm blending in with everyone, but I'm trying to pick up. So if there is nothing else, I'll entertain a motion. And this is Gainesboro District. Yes, just a comment. I was here along with Mr. Thomas in 27, weren't we? And this has much less impact on that area. I think it's a wise decision by the Whites and also the other owners. So with that, I will make a motion to approve rezoning application 0221, graystone properties and white properties. Second. I have a second. I got two seconds. So we second, second. We got that going on there. So I'm going to start over here with Mr. Klein. Kozel, yes. Jewell, yes. Marston, yes. Coach, no. Thomas, yes. Triplett, yes. Dawson, yes. Morrison, yes. Molden, yes. Chair votes no. Motion carries. This goes to the Board of Supervisors on July 14th meeting. Our next item is an action item. It's a rezoning of 01-21 for One Logistics Park. Mrs. Perkins. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. This is a proposal to rezone six properties totaling 277 acres from the R4 Residential Planning Community District to the B2 Business General District and the M1 Light Industrial District with proffers. Now, this item has been before the Planning Commission on two separate occasions. You may remember back at your March 17th meeting, you did hold a public hearing for this item. It was postponed for 90 days. Following that, the Commission held a work session to discuss the application and transportation concerns. Now, following that work session, the applicant did submit revised proffers dated May 18th, seeking to identify or address some of the identified concerns, and those proffers are in your application package. That's just a brief history, so I'm going to just kind of go over some background. A lot of this you've already heard. At previous meetings, we've had a lot of questions about the application. At previous meetings, but just to go through some of the site, those are the subject properties you may recall are part of the original Carpers, Valley or Governors Hill rezoning application which was approved back in 2005. It was subsequently revised back in 2009, 2013, and 2014. The original rezoning provided for about 143 acres of commercial uses and 550 residential units. If I can direct you to the screen on your left, just for reference sake. Subject properties are outlined in blue. They're this orangish color. You have Route 50 that runs along the front. You have Prince Frederick Drive. You have Arbor Court. You have the National Guard in this location in the Public Safety Center in this location in the airport. Now, at the bottom of your screen, this is the Master Development Plan from the original Governor's Hill rezoning. For reference, you have Route 50, Coverstone Drive, and then this is the proposed residential portion of the property, airport in the back, Public Safety Center. What's before you tonight? The total 277 acres. They're seeking 264 acres for industrial land uses and about 12.5 acres for commercial uses. The commercial area is located at the intersection of 50 and the future Coverstone Drive. They are eliminating the residential units that were previously approved. Just to touch on Comprehensive Plan, it is the same as previously discussed. Comprehensive Plan calls for the property to be commercial and high-density residential, which is consistent with the current zoning. Therefore, the industrial component that is being requested with this rezoning remains inconsistent with the goals of the Comprehensive Plan. Okay. That's just a brief overview of the site history and the Comprehensive Plan. I'm going to go ahead and turn over the bulk of this to Mr. Bishop for the transportation component of the project. One second, Kay. Yes, sir. Mr. Thomas. Yes. The last statement there, that it's inconsistent with the Comprehensive Plan. Yes. Recognize that it is, but isn't the residential component that's on this inconsistent with the airport support area that it's next to? So our Comprehensive Plan is really inconsistent with... It's consistent with itself. Technically, correct. Back when the project was originally rezoned, the bulk of the property, the entire thing, was Comprehensive Plan for commercial uses. So at that time, the residential component being in an area planned for commercial within the airport support area was not consistent with the plan. Following the rezoning, the Comprehensive Plan then was updated to recognize the existing zoning of that high-density residential area. Land use, technically, is consistent with... What's designated, however, the goals of the airport support area do not support residential units. Yes. Thank you. Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. Jump right into transportation here. As Candace noted, since you have seen... This before, we've tried to hit on the highlights. I've got everything in there, but I'm just trying to hit the peaks of the waves, if you will, in terms of the changes. I will address... I did receive a communication from a Planning Commissioner concerned that I may have made some new late comments. So I'm going to address that as well as best I can, because I'm not aware of any new comments I've made. Just to quickly jump out, of course, the biggest portion of your transportation proffers... Are the phased implementation of Coverstone Drive itself, which, of course, intersects with Route 50 across from Avery Lee Way and continues Coverstone from its existing location where it terminates just past your public safety office, which I'll point out right here. Key note, between last time and this time, I had had some concerns regarding some new language that had popped up regarding the phasing, in which I was concerned that some of the phasing could be rejiggered in a way that wasn't the most beneficial to the county. That last time, I had had some concerns regarding some new language that had popped up regarding the phasing, in which I was concerned that some of the phasing could be rejiggered in a way that wasn't the most beneficial to the county. And I'm sorry to say that that language has been removed. A new Phase 4 has been added. You may recall there was a discussion of adding the... Making the Phases 2 and 3 to 4 lanes, because they do go in as two lanes of Coverstone Drive, while Phase 1 goes in as four lanes. Upon the excess of 800 heavy vehicle trips per day or 10,000 regular vehicle trips per day. That has been... Rejiggered a little bit into a Phase 4, in which now, it would also be improved to four lanes prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy that would be 2 million square feet or more. So it's still not an outright guarantee, but just to give you a note of scale, that's 2 million out of a proposed 2.9 million square foot of development. Some updates were made to... There was previously discussion of a... This is the 2.6.2b, I believe. There was discussion of a signalization agreement. That language has been updated. To note that if warranted, signalization would occur after Coverstone improvements were completed and adopted into the VDOT system. Otherwise, $200,000 to the county toward that signalization. I still have a comment about that, but the comment hasn't really changed. The underlying text that I'm commenting on has changed, but the issue that I had regarding timing has not gone away. No real change there. You may recall in our discussion of the portions of the proffers which pertain to the off-site improvements in which the applicant may need to obtain right-of-way. And we're in a situation... We're in a situation where they were unsuccessful in obtaining that right-of-way for fair market value. That there would be a request that the county utilize eminent domain to obtain that right-of-way on their behalf in order to allow the project, that particular improvement to move forward. The proffer was there that said if the county did choose to go ahead with that, there was nothing that really stated how those costs would be covered that the county would incur in that process. And similarly... In the terms of if the county chose not to move forward with that and the applicant simply reimbursed the county for the potential cost of that development. Once again, it spoke to construction costs as opposed to overall costs, which does always include things like utilities and right-of-way acquisitions. So you'll note in yellow I've added that they have updated that language to include that acquisition cost. To get to... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... To... In order to help an applicant implement a proffer to offset their impact. And if the board chooses not to take that option, which in my getting to be long experience with the county, I've never seen them do, it puts us in a potential position of not being able to deal with that impact. So I just feel the need to point that out. So with that, I will note that this is an action item. You did hold your public hearing on March 17th. We are seeking a recommendation from the Board of Trustees. We are seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors. We do have Brad Riggleman here. I probably should have mentioned him before, too. He mostly came here for this. I doubt he's sorry he didn't get to talk about the intersection at Cedar Creek. Great. But Mr. Riggleman is here from VDOT if you wish to speak with him. And, of course, we have the applicant's representative here as well, Mr. Randy Minchu. Thank you, sir. Questions I've got. Let me start with Mr. Moan down here. Mr. Bishop, just in the citizen comment at the beginning, you know, you've got a lot of questions. You've got a lot of questions. There was a reference to Coverstone Drive rather than coming out at Inverleigh, extending around to Sulphur Spring Road at that intersection. And I think just by way of history, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, but if you can confirm this, that the original Governor's Hill actually did bring Coverstone Drive out at that intersection and that it was a prior revision to the rezoning and the proffers that a previous Board of Supervisors supported, rather significantly, realigned that to Inverleigh, that intersection to Inverleigh. Is that correct? Yeah, that's definitely true. There were a number of things. And let me put this kind of at the back because I didn't know if I'd – oh, I lost it. Okay. That's okay. We'll go figure the best way to do this here. We'll wing it. All right. All right. So previously, instead of hooking north, I wanted to say, south for a second, hooking north here to meet Inverleigh Way. This continued around and met Sulphur Springs Road, which, forgive my eyes, I can't tell quite where it is. It's roughly in this location, somewhere in the location. The property group at that time, there were a few things that went on. They were growing my perception, increasingly concerned about the potential cost of getting through the hillside there to tap into that intersection with Sulphur Springs Road. It was in our comp plan. In that way, at that time, that that was the connection. So that was a concern on the part of the applicant. Concurrent with that, we had safety concerns from the community and from the board member from this district. He was very concerned about safety. You do have a slope on the approach to Sulphur Springs as you're heading from east to west. That was a concern. His actions and leadership are a big reason why you see those flashers approaching that signal. It's a big reason why you see those flashers approaching that signal today that you do see. The signalization itself occurred following a fatality at that intersection. None of that is said to say that that location is right or wrong or otherwise. It was in our comprehensive plan that way for many years, but that's the history and some of what was going on around it, if that's what you were looking for. I think just for public awareness, the safety issue is significant in that I think there was agreement at the commission at that time that realigning... I think just for public awareness, the safety issue is significant in that I think there was agreement at the commission at that time that realigning Coverstone made sense. Now it was a different project, a different expectation of traffic types and vehicular types and everything, but I just think that's an important point for folks to recognize that it's been an iterative process even though things haven't really moved forward. There's definitely... There's definitely... This has lived a lot of lives just in and of itself, and frankly, even the version we're in now, I, on a whim earlier, counted the different versions of profit. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. So I think that the alpha is the only one feather at the door. Ich no, no, no, I don't do nothing. We are on for ashamed property. We are allowed here to buy property even though we know you are a member of the board for probably the first four years, so I'mbell the third five years with the property and the size of the attire, theories, so many of the properties, a training site, the and the the but the current zoning, which generates 47,000, 48,000 vehicle trips per day, would we still need the $60 million to $80 million worth of traffic improvements to take care of the existing rezoning, or is the new rezoning causing the need for the $60 million to $80 million worth of traffic improvements? At the end of the day, it hasn't been studied in that way. So that was one of the discussions, of course, that came up at the work session as well. I think the applicant was going to try and look into it. We've got a little bit of an apples-to-oranges comparison in terms of the rezoning that's on the books and what's trying to be done, and, of course, all the grass that has grown over what was done before. But I don't think the applicant's necessarily dug in that deep and has a good understanding of what's going on. So I think the applicant's going to try and look into it. And Mr. Kennedy can try and answer it, but it's for myself. And I think, as Mr. Riggleman's noting, I mean, I could stick a wet finger in the air, but I get pretty uncomfortable with taking guesses at such things. We're allowed to guess. You're not. You are, exactly. Other question. One of the comments that was in the gentleman's letter of concern from the Raven Wing development there was about the commercial area. The existing rezoning is essentially 1.5 million square feet of commercial. Yes, it is. So how would the people from the Ravens development get to the existing rezoning other than crossing Millwood Avenue? So actually it would be a... That's absolutely the most direct way to get there. It would be a more dangerous situation now than at the new rezoning because you would have much more commercial area drawing them from Ravens development across Millwood Avenue. Across Millwood Pike and up the road to this development. You would definitely have more crossing traffic. I'm comfortable saying that, yeah. Thank you, Mr. Thomas. Anyone else? Did I dream it, and that's probably possible. All the time. Eastern Road plan. Sir. Were Coverstone at the safety building dead ends. Sir. When they proposed to go cross country back to Foxwoods, did you see any signs of a 522 at one time? You're referring to the 522 realignment, and generically the answer is yes. Once upon a time, the 522 realignment prior to the 2017 update of your Eastern Road plan was actually supposed to go to Ryko Lane, come out on Route 50 right next to Blue Fox Billiards. You'd be in the right turn lane. You'd probably be able to reach out and shoot a pool ball, but it was that close. Yes. But with further... With study that surrounded the 313 improvements, which you see funded today, or some of them anyway, VDOT looked at a lot of things, and one of the things they looked at was the potential alignments of 522. Now, that study did not make it all the way to its fruition, but there was enough work done to that particular alignment that staff and subsequently the board felt comfortable with going ahead and adjusting that layout, although we're now doing more work on it through the MPO. I think I mentioned that back last time we talked about this. And the Transportation Committee recently got that report as well. That's why it now goes cross-country back to 522 and then really goes down Prince Frederick Drive. Yeah, well, the point of it is... So this intersects with it. To me, that would take a lot off of 313 up there if you went that direction. That's the idea. You reduce the movements at the interchange there, and trucks or cars or whomever is trying to get back to the interchange. It creates a better approach. Now, there's a lot more. There's going to need to go into that. And as we move into that phase two of that study, a big part of what we're pushing for is also what you do to Route 50 between Prince Frederick and the interchange itself. Because if all we do is relocate where you tie in, we're still going to have a number of problems in the interim. I don't mean to take you off on a tangent, but short answer is yes, but we're still working on it. Okay. Thank you. Other questions? Just to be clear, we did request, or we did at the work session, we thought it would be a great idea to have a meeting with the President of the United States. It would be great to have a comparison between the two, where we're at right now, currently, before we do the rezoning. And we did not receive anything, information to that effect. I did not receive a submission. I know the applicant was trying to do what they could to work on that. I'll leave that to Mr. Kennedy to answer. He may have some answers for you. I do not. Okay. Thanks, sir. Any other questions? Seeing none, thanks, sir. And with the applicant, Mr. Kennedy, I'd like to go. Is it Mr. Minchu? I would, Mr. Minchu. Minchu? Yes. Yes, I see him standing up first. Would you like to come up? Good evening, Mr. Chairman and members of the Planning Commission. I'm Randy Minchu. And we do have a presentation, Mr. Chairman, we could go through. We realize the public hearing has been held. The public hearing has been closed. I could answer questions. I could take you through a brief presentation together with Mr. Kennedy, my transportation engineer, and answer any questions the Commission may have. So whatever the pleasure of the Chairman is, we want to accommodate that. This is your time of the meeting. Okay. Well, thank you, sir. I'll advance these slides. And some of the points that I have here have been covered by staff in their presentation, so I'm not going to be redundant on that. This is an application to rezone property that was in the governance show rezoning, approved R4 for 550 residential units, plus about 1.285 million square feet of office and resale. And this is a proposal that we're proposing to rezone it to M1 for light industrial, all employment uses, getting rid of those 550 residential units, and adding a B2 zone at the northern part of the project, with a total square footage of just under 3 million, 2.99. The approved development plan, probably helpful to talk about that. What we have there on the, you can see Coverstone coming down there. On the east side, we have a cover stone. We've got a cover stone. The cover stone is on the east side. It's 550 units, pretty much townhouses. That's the only way you could get that kind of density in there. And the existing proffers only call for the portion of Coverstone to be built down to that entrance into the residential community. So, in other words, if you wanted to, if you were a resident developer and you wanted to uncork those 550 units, the only road improvement you'd really need to do is to bring down Coverstone from Millwood Pike in there. And so, you've got a lot of cover stone. That's the only way you could get that kind of density in there. And the existing proffers only call for the portion of Coverstone to be built down to that entrance into the residential community. And it's interesting. Those 550 units do have a proffer to pay for public school capital facilities, but only $1,714 per unit. Now, the Virginia Department of Education puts a capital facilities number on each student at about $35,000 per unit. This 550 units would generate between 1,000 and 1,500 students that would be in our Frederick County public school. And that's a lot of money. And the reason for that is because of the fact that the school system, doing the math on that, that's a net, really a gross capital impact between 35 million and 53 million. And that per unit amount of $1,714 only takes off about 940,000 of that. So, even after that capital facilities proffer is left to build out these 550 units, the taxpayers of Frederick County will be left with a fiscal deficit between, you know, 35 and 52 million without really any major road improvement. That's just the cost of educating children from a Cal facility standpoint. So, that is the existing project that was approved. And you'll note that I think Mr. Bishop mentioned that the proposed connection that was going up to Sulphur Springs was indeed moved as a part of a comprehensive planning to make it across Minvalee. So, we just followed the comprehensive plan for that that was decided in that rezoning number years ago. All right. Thank you. The current development plan, let me take you to the proffered plan here, is a phasing plan where different ones of these industrial land base can come online based upon road improvements. And we can walk you through the phasing plan that we had that we've worked on since the public hearing and approved. That's just a context map showing our next door airport in the industrial area there on the south side of Millwood Pike. Okay. So, as I mentioned, there is the airport area. Recently, the airport is going to be expanding and going to bring in some hangar units. And as a general rule, having residential units next to an airport is not good for the long-time vitality of the airport. What I'd like to do is have Mr. Kennedy come up and join me and we will tag team in going through, Mr. Chair, the coverstone improvements the way they were back when we had our public hearing back on St. Patrick's Day and how they've improved since then. Basically, we're going to have a lot of improvements. I promise it's going to be a really good experience. Thank you for that. Thank you for the luck, Dr. lum. And as you would expect, in this city, one of the best bridges is trying to sit both of them together. That's good. So, I'm going to ask him to tell you about the projects that provide we have a large physical as well as long-term stocks in each of the buildings. You know, I asked this question a lot, Mr. Lemfle that I believe has those two headlines and one way or another we might not have any dates for a lot of these buildings. It might be a period. to the east. Phase three connects to where Coverstone currently is in the state system and back at the public hearing Mr. Chairman we didn't know if Coverstone was in the VDOT system all the way past the Public Safety Center. It is indeed there so we would be connecting in to that state maintained road. What we've done since the public hearing and working with Mr. Bishop and staff is we added a phase four and that is the completion of the full ultimate section of Coverstone down to the point where it hits into the state system there on the east side of the Public Safety Center. So we have a phasing plan that as our traffic study that we build these roads out to meet the traffic as they go on. As I mentioned previously in the under the existing zoning basically the red area that's the phase one improvement that would open up 550 units so and our belief is that with the hot residential market if the existing zoning will be pursued that would be the only road improvement that would happen to build out those 550 units. They would all come out following that that red road up to Millwood Pike. The other areas the phase two and phase three under the existing zoning would only come online when the commercial office retail area come forward. Um, our community benefits basically I'm going to go through some numbers here because this is an industrial project has zero school impact so that 35 to 52 million dollars of capital impacts upon our taxpayers to fund the cost of building schools goes away. It's a the total real estate taxes goes up employment goes up direct and indirect employment related this wages and benefits so this is a from a fiscal standpoint a far better um land use uh for the uh Frederick County tax base. Um it is a reduction in total vehicle trips over what was currently zoned with a stronger proffer package. Um there is an increase in truck traffic obviously it's industrial project but the total vehicle trips goes down from what the uh existing zoning would be. Um I mentioned the school impact uh drop of the 550 units. I'm not going to go through that again. And um uh I thought I would briefly touch on Mister Chairman that there were some proffers from the old rezoning that were done even before a single spate of dirt returned on this project. Basically the um National Guard Army property dedication of 10 acres, the Pendleton Road construction was done, the dedication of property for the Sheriff's Office. So uh I just want to mention that because we're not you know really taking credit for that. This was done by the existing landowners who have put the property under contract to our client. But uh just want to mention those existing proffers, and then I'll probably have to go through the details of that. Um you know I think we're looking forward to seeing what you're talking about next. Uh we're looking forward to seeing what's going on next. So I think the I think I'm going to go through without any development has given rise to a benefit of about five million dollars to the citizens of Frederick County. This application we're completing Coverstone, making the connection into Penland Drive, building those intersection improvements at Route 15 Coverstone and also doing off-site improvements over at Prince Frederick and Costello. Now those are off-site. We have been in touch with those landowners. We think, Mr. Chairman, that we'll be able to acquire that right-of-way and any necessary easements, but we have not done the engineering drawings and worked up the deeds to actually get that property dedicated so we can build on it, but we we believe we will successful and we want to build this road. We did put in a proffer that is really the only responsible thing to do that if we if we can't reach an ability to acquire that right-of-way after offering fair market value and trying to negotiate a better we can to get it. We did put in a proffer that the Board of Supervisors has the right but not the obligation to consider use of its power of in the domain. If they choose not to do so then what we will do is compute the cost of that right away, compute the cost of all of those improvements and make a cash contribution at that time to the Board of Supervisors that can go to any regional roads to help this area of Frederick County. Again we don't intend to put pressure on the Board of Supervisors. That is a business decision for them to decide if they want to use them a domain but we believe Mr. Chairman rather strongly that we'll be able to acquire the right of way so we can build a road but we did want to put in language about what happens if we can't get it. Moving on but that brief comparison there the existing residential with the retail area and the old zoning and together with the reason that we're proposed. With that Mr. Chair I know I'm a time limit but let me with your leave introduce Doug Kennedy. He's a far better man on trench than I am. Thank you Mr. Chairman. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. Let's give Doug Kennedy this �нев they mad within the provost. It's just a good representation that the Indiana County Board is conflictually coupled with community issues and we really want to maximize their região presentation issues than I am to fill in any gaps on my left. Doug canady of Pannoni. Thanks sir. Mr. Kennedy. Mr. Chairman and members of the Commission thank you very much for your time. I'll be brief and work backwards on the county staff issues relating the transportation that maybe Randy hasn't covered but just to reinforce the issue. In terms of the Profferer for 2-7 with We don't expect we have to use eminent domain, but we're carrying on the characteristics of the original proffers from 2007, which allowed for county eminent domain if we haven't had it. Again, don't think it's gonna be an issue, and we understand where staff is coming from, but in our viewpoint, we don't think we're changing the status of the application. Those improvements on Prince Frederick are fairly minor. We're putting our resources into the Coverstone Drive access. In terms of the timing for the offsite improvements, in terms of, we are considering, and we have saw Mr. Bishop's comment, and as we get to the board, the one question maybe that can be adjusted since the road, Coverstone Drive is in the state system, the applicants are willing to coordinate and take out the language dealing with the accepted in the state system. We had a clause in there saying, we'll make the contribution if the signal is wanted, and if Coverstone Drive is in the state system as we build it. That language probably does put a detriment on the timing, and I think from the applicant's point of view, that really doesn't drive the timing of the needs for the contribution. So as we get to the board, the proffers today do not show that language, but that is something that we would voluntarily do for the board level. That I think addresses some of the issues from staff on the timing when. We are proposing these improvements at Prince Frederick Drive dealing with signalization at 1.6 million square feet. When we ran the analysis, and the traffic studies, we didn't see a need for the traffic signal, even at the full build out of the site. So we expect that this proffer language is gonna lead to the trigger of a contribution to the signal at Prince Frederick and Costello. The money is there, the value would be there, and we provided the mechanism to allow the county to use those resources for public good. The other, really the first issue that staff recognized and raised, which we spent a lot of time through this application, was addressing the I-81 interchange impact. And the overall impacts for the site. Again, we've talked about it through the site studies that we are generating significantly less traffic in terms of the 47,000 vehicles per day versus the 17,000 vehicles per day. We have included proffers to recognize the impacts of trucks and actually in terms of discussions with Mr. Thomas, looking at what the total truck traffic would be with this particular use. Again, a general rule of thumb would be if we're looking at maybe four, five trucks equivalents for a car, if we took the amount of truck traffic we're having, added that on to the proposed trip generation as proposed, we're roughly 23,000 vehicles per day versus the 17,000. That's still only half of what the full development of Governor's Hill would be. So as we look at the regional impacts of the roadways, we feel very strongly that the improvements at I-81 would still be required in some form with the development of by-right uses. Again, in 2007, the development of that traffic at Governor's Hill were never considered as part of the interchange improvements as were the impacts of the other offices in terms of the FBI site, the Navy federal facilities, and some of the other government facilities. So we feel we have accounted for that in terms of analysis. We have looked at a back of the envelope calculations on the traffic impacts at the interchange at I-81. Again, in the traffic studies, we factored in the impacts of truck traffic to show traffic operations at the signals for the peaks, for the AM and the PM peak to look at what would be required. If you went back to our traffic volumes as we've used them today and looked at the development activities for Governor's Square using, or Governor's Hill using the VDOT criteria now, we would be looking at probably about 13,000 vehicles per day at the build out at Governor's Hill versus about 9,700 vehicles per day with the build out. And that's what's happening. So that's a lot of the traffic that we've seen in terms of the impact of the interchange at I-81. And we've seen that in terms of the traffic that we've seen in terms of the traffic that we've seen at the build out of the proposed One Logistics Park. Less traffic, overall impacts, even with the full development of both projects. So while we have spent a lot of time talking about the interchange at I-81, that project is far enough along, we heard that from VDOT at our work session, to come in and make improvements, we think, and a lot of the price, in terms of the volumes, was what to do on Route 50 between the interchange and Prince Frederick Drive. So while that project is far enough along, we think, and a lot of the price, in terms of the volumes, was what to do on Route 50 between the interchange and Prince Frederick Drive. And that would be also a major part of the roadway cost. We are providing the funds with the revised proffers to build Coverstone Drive as a four-lane roadway, which is more than what's needed for our site. And we feel that is our sort of regional credit, regional contribution to the roadway facilities to support the change in the rezoning. And with that, we'll answer any questions from the Planning Commission. Thank you, Mr. Kennedy. Any questions? Mr. Thomas. Would you go back to the slide, your phase one, two, three, and four slides that showed Coverstone Drive there? That one right there? That one, yes. Okay, phase one is the red area. Is there, at the phase one build out, will they have the ability to come up and go through Coverstone Drive, the back door out, or is there just going to be one exit out of your development? In terms of the proffers, we have looked at it in the phase one development. That would provide the initial access for the property. So that would be to service land bay three would be a single access point for that development. The remaining, to have the second access, to have access in terms of phase A in land bays, this is land bay two, the fairly large land bay here. And land bay one is adjacent to the sheriff's office. Those improvements, if development were to occur on those properties, then the proffers would require us to build phase two of the roadway in green and phase three of the roadway in blue. So the proffers are set up to recognize that if you're looking at development in the initial phases for industrial uses, yes, Coverstone Drive would be connected between Route 50 and the sheriff's office. Okay. Bottom line, if we're building land bays one and two. If you're just building land bay one. If you're building land bay one, yes, the road would be constructed through. So you can get, if there's an accident at the intersection of Coverstone and Route 50 that shuts that intersection down, there's a back way out of your development. That is correct. Okay. With the proffers. No. One of the things, by building a divided road, that does allow for, if there's an accident on one side of the road, you could technically, for emergency, detail traffic on the other side of the median. But, yes, sir. Questions? Phase one, four lane. Phase two, two lane. Correct. Phase two is two lane, half section. Phase three is a half section. And then phase four, you're going back to a four lane. Phase four is taking phase two and phase three and widening from two lanes to four lanes. Why don't you build a four lane road when you're doing it? I mean, it costs. Well, you do it. You know, one thing with building roads, and we've experienced this time and time and time again, we're going to expand a road. But it's ten years later when you expand a road, and then the cost is so much more, and then you run into other problems. If you're going to do this, why don't you do it? Why don't you go ahead and build a four lane road all the way connected? You're going to have four lanes on one side and four lanes on the other, and then two lanes, especially when you're talking vehicles and tractor trailers. I've worked in several different parts, and that's always a problem. So, you know, if it's going to be mixed use, I don't think industrial, but it's also going to be mixed use. Why don't you go ahead and build a four lane road? I think you answered the reason why. It's really cost. We've talked about it internally. And the cost for the road is really, really, really high. It's really, really high. It's really, really high. It's really, really high. It's really, really high. And so, it's a lot of work. It's a lot of work for the roadways to allow the flexibility in terms of the market for the initial industrial activities. It made sense to provide the two lane road for capacity to provide that linkage, and then save some of the costs to spread out over the remaining portion of the property. There is a lot of earthwork to construct the roadways, so it is not a cheap subdivision road to build. So, therefore, we recognize we may be paying more in the end, but we're saving money in the initial phases, which allow flexibility. So, we're saving money in the initial phases, which allow flexibility for the marketing of the activities. Let's go back to Mr. Thomas' point here. We've got a public safety building back there. We also have a fire department that's over there. So, having the four lane road actually makes perfect sense for us, but they have to deal with accidents and everything else going through there. So, I mean, I think that there – I understand there's cost, but I understand that, you know, there's also a price break here, and what's good for the community. And this is one that really needs to be considered. I really think it should be a four lane road all the way through. And I think one of the big changes we've made is to recognize that we need to be part of that regional solution and provide the four lane section, ultimately. We do need to stage it, and one of the things we have put in the proffer is that, as we build the two lane roadway, if there's a heavy truck component on a turn, we need to build turn lanes. And so, there may be turn lanes that are built that may be thrown away in the ultimate development with a four lane roadway. But it does allow the flexibility from the performer of the project to provide that two lane section, to provide alternative access, emergency access if needed, for the site to the sheriff's office. But our thought was our traffic alone doesn't justify the four lanes, and we need to spread those costs out over the life of the project. So, at this time, we felt that the provision of the four lane section provides the consistency with the comp plan, but puts it at a time frame that allows us to move forward. Again, these proffers have sat for a long time without being implemented, and a lot of that has to do with the fact that there's significant roadway costs involved with the previous proffers. I have a concern with the four lanes coming in on both sides. The two lanes are going to be in-built, and then building Pennsley Drive, which is going to be a two lane, which actually will end up being a back door to Airport Road. I really have a concern about that. I think that's where I'm going. The last thing I can just add to that is, in a sense, we'll be building more than the two lanes. We'll be building the transitions from four lanes to two lanes. So, it's not going to be stopping. You make a right turn from a four lane road to a two lane. We're going to have to follow VDOT specifications. They have transitions. So, a good portion adjacent to Land Bay 4, you'll probably have transitions right in here, like from the red down to here. There'll be a transition where we're building the lanes to transition down. And the same thing in front of the Sheriff's Office. We'll have to build adjacent to Land Bay 1, build the four lanes and taper the pavement down to that roadway. But in the end, it really is a matter of when the dollars are being spent initially on the project. Mr. Chairman, the timing of the signalization, I have to hear that again. Are you going to be doing that? Yes. I don't want to misdirect here. The issue we have with signalization is at Prince Frederick and Costello. I don't believe that signal is needed for a significant portion of time, well until you get beyond, say, the 3 million square feet that may be happening on the project. The need for the signal is when 522 is relocated, to be honest. But we have worked with VDOT and we've spent a lot of extra time getting VDOT approval of a traffic signal installation that we have proffered to at Coverstone Drive, Millwood Pike, and Intervilly Way. That would be done as part of the initial development, along with the initial turn lanes we were adding to make that intersection safer and signalized as part of the initial development of this traffic. In fact, the signal is proffered with Phase 1 development. Thank you, sir. So we are providing that improvement up front. Mr. Thomas has one other question. Mr. Kennedy, after you develop Phase 1, do you have, can you, just give me a round figure of how much of your projected traffic distribution would go north to Millwood Pike, how much would come south around Coverstone Drive and go out to 522? I would say 80 to 85% of the traffic would be using the Coverstone access at Millwood Pike, probably about 15 to maybe 20%, depending on where the land bays are, would be finding its way, if they're going south on 522, would make its way to Prince Frederick and Costello to turn south on 522, to say go down towards Inlandport. So you don't think the majority of your heavy traffic is going to come from the Inlandport, you think it's going to come from Millwood Pike? Yeah, from Millwood Pike and the 81 interchange. That was based on the coordination with VDOT and the county, the distribution orientation. So really the industrial traffic, is really about 15% of the total traffic for this site on 522 south. You say industrial traffic, are you talking heavy traffic or are you talking vehicles? It's, the heavy traffic is the 15%, the total vehicles are 15 to 20%. And VDOT has assured you that the heavy traffic on the 313 interchange, I think Mr. Igelman verified at the work session, that the structural integrity of the bridge, based on their improvements, will have no problem handling the increased heavy traffic load. In my opinion, correct. There is capacity being added to that interchange, that bridge is being rebuilt to current standards to accommodate heavy vehicles on the bridge, and one of the things I think changes it is providing a second turn lane to go from Route 50 to go on the southbound ramp. That's one of the major problems at that interchange today. So rebuilding the bridge would accommodate these changes in heavy vehicle traffic. Yes, sir. Mills. I got Mr. Morrison down here. You mentioned earlier that the language of eminent domain came from the original proffers. Would you be willing to strike that entirely? I think we'd have to talk to the applicant, to our client about that. I am concerned that that language would be taken out. I have two major concerns with it. And one is that if it's cheaper for you to pay the county to apply for eminent domain, why would you bother to acquire the property? Human nature flaw, let's call it. The other is I don't see the function of county government enabling developers to have success in their projects. Amen. So I would much prefer that whole eminent domain be struck right out of there because I don't think it's our place to acquire right away for your development. And from, Mr. Morrison, from the traffic engineering point of view, I agree we're not trying to provide force eminent domain on the county. The steps require us to go through the process and try to acquire the land on our own. And what we don't want to have a problem as we get to halfway through the project, if there's a particular tenant that wants to come in with an industrial use and we have a developer who we've talked to and negotiated with but is being unrealistic on the cost he's asking to add the right turn lane, then we're stuck with development and we can't respond to the economic impact or the economic developments in the area. So what we've said is our fallback positioning is that we would ask the county to cooperate with us and assist in the eminent domain. But it's still our job in step one to go out and get it and do it. And so we expect, and I think we've talked to the adjacent property owners who control these land bays along Prince Frederick Drive at Route 50 and at Costello, and we feel comfortable, that is, but at this stage with proffers in negotiations with the county, we felt it was important to maintain that proffer language from 2007. So you're waiting until you get the project approved to find out if you can get the right of way. That sounds a little backwards to me. I'm not a developer, mind you, but quite honestly it sounds quite backwards to me. And I would much be more comfortable voting for this if that eminent domain language was struck. We can look at that, but at this time we feel very important to keep that flexibility in. We'd have to talk to the applicant and see whether or not they would want to pursue that flexibility. Okay. Any other questions for the applicant? Thank you, sirs. Appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Appreciate it. All right. This is an action item. We have any discussions, further discussions amongst ourselves? Mr. Thomas? I know I get accused of talking a lot, so I'll go ahead and... You? I'm going to talk a lot on this. When this first came in and at the work session, I was extremely concerned about the traffic impacts. With discussions with VDOT at the work session, other staff members, and looking at it since then, and a lot of discussions with Mr. Bishop and Mr. Kennedy, what we have to recognize on this application is that the status quo of having scrub brush and open land is not what we're looking at. We're looking at a current zoning that allows the construction of 550 houses, 1.5 million square feet of commercial and retail space. That's going to cause a huge traffic impact in that area. It's going to cause an impact to Frederick County taxpayers. It's going to cause an impact to the overall safety in that area. So when we look at the traffic impacts, the current zoning allows the development to generate 47,000 vehicles per day of traffic coming out of there. That's quite a bit of traffic. The question I asked Mr. Riggleman earlier, which really I knew the answer before I asked, is that the traffic impacts are going to be a big factor in the development of the city. We can't determine the impact based on current studies or studies. We started this in 2005. So the traffic studies on that initial development are way outdated. So if we look at today and just say today's our baseline, and if we add 47,000 trips per day today, VDOT still is going to have to spend 60 to 80 million dollars to improve those roads. We're not done with this development. But the current zoning, in addition to that, we would have, the county taxpayers would have to pay to build a new school. That's not a cheap thing. We're looking at 35 to 40 million dollars for the construction of a school. Then we'll look at another seven and a half to 10 million dollars for buses, for furniture and equipment, for new computers, for books. Everything that goes with a new school construction. So our upfront costs that Frederick County taxpayers right now are on the hook for, it's not what they could be on the hook for. It's what we are all on the hook for is $42 to $50 million worth of construction costs. That has nothing to do with VDOT's road requirements. That's for us to pay for a school. That's the initial construction costs. What we haven't talked about is then every year after that, because we've built a new school, we're probably looking at another $8.5 to $10 million annual cost to pay 50 to 60 new employees, new teachers, their salaries, bus drivers, water and sewer and electricity, maintenance of a new school. So Frederick County taxpayers today with the current zoning are on the hook for probably $50 to $60 million. That's right up, that's an easy cost analysis to come up with, a quick one. Now property taxes, when we say, okay, well property taxes will pay some of that. If we say those 550 residents are going to pay $2,000 of residence and property taxes, which is probably high, but who knows, that's a million dollars. Out of $10 million, that means we're still on the hook for $9 million every year after this. That's significant tax. That's significant tax impact to the Frederick County people. Now we go back to the traffic, and that's always concerned me. But again, we're cutting the traffic probably, this rezoning cuts the traffic probably in half. The heavy trucks have concerned me all along. And discussions, I look back at some old traffic classes I took, and kind of a standard, but it's kind of a loose standard. One heavy truck is equivalent to about four cars. Four cars or four pickup trucks. So if we say, and Mr. Kennedy says there's going to be 1,800 heavy trucks, I say, okay, let's bump that up to 2,500, be safe. So that's equivalent to maybe 7,500, 10,000 vehicle trips per day. Well, if we then look at adding that on to the vehicle trips that this will generate, another 15,000, we're at 25,000 vehicle trips per day with the new rezoning. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Well, our car is going to be $2,000. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Our current rezoning allows 47,000 trips per day, so we're cutting the amount of traffic by half with this new rezoning. Now, I mean, we can't say whether the current rezoning was right, wrong, or indifferent, but it's what we got. It's our starting point. No development there is not our starting point. Our starting point is what the existing zoning is, which is 550 houses and 1.5 million square feet of residential, I mean, commercial space and retail space. So, I guess, long story short, I've convinced myself over the last 90 days that Frederick County taxpayers are going to be better off with this new rezoning than what we are with the current rezoning. It might be a hard pill to swallow, you know, just being exposed to it quickly, but when you start going through the impact costs from building an area, you're going to see that the cost of building an area is going to be higher. Mm-hmm. Those 550 houses, the traffic problem is there now. It's not going to get any better with building the current rezoning, because currently we could go to 47,000 trips per day, and some of them are going to be heavy vehicles. We don't even have a breakdown of how many of that 47,000 trips per day would be heavy vehicles. So, we're cutting the traffic impact by half. We're getting rid of a capital cost of $50 million to construct a new school, an annual cost of $7 to $10 million to pay salaries for teachers and that. And that doesn't count the impact on other county services. So, we're saving taxpayers. This rezoning, not we're saving, this rezoning would save Frederick County taxpayers a significant amount of money. Not only on the initial cost, but on recurring. And the traffic, you know, VDOT needs $60 to $80 million. Either way, they need $60 to $80 million. So, I mean, that was a stunning number, but I don't think this rezoning makes much difference one way or the other, whether they need the $60 or $80 million. And Mr. Riggleman's not going to commit one way or the other on that, because there's no study to prove one way or the other. So, that's my comments. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Anyone else? Mr. Oates. I'm going to vote in favor of it. It's not because I haven't heard you. As Roger said, what we have on the books today, what could be built there or will be built there, is much worse. In my opinion, this is one of the top three worst land use decisions the Board of Supervisors ever made back there in 2007. I was shocked that they approved houses next to the area. The airport. That whole area was supposed to be industrial, commercial. By getting the houses out of there, that component, that enables the airport to apply for more grants to expand. The overlay district for the airport is in conflict with the comprehensive plan, or the comprehensive plan is in conflict with the airport overlay. So, between that, the 60% reduction in traffic. Again, I'm going to vote in favor of this. If this was Greenfield, if this was rural area and they're coming in for a fresh rezoning, we would have a totally different tact on this. You would be building four lanes. I mean, the domain would be taken out. You'd be coming up with a lot more proffers. But this has taken a really, really bad situation, bad rezoning and making it better. So, there's my two cents. Mr. Oates. Anyone else? Mr. Moan. I just want to piggyback on what my colleagues have said. I am also going to support the rezoning this evening. I think fundamentally from a land use perspective, this is the right land use for this site. What was rezoned to the R4 zoning district is not appropriate. I think it's kind of hard for folks to get their arms around what that would mean if it actually came to fruition. I think it's kind of hard for folks to get their arms around what that would mean if it actually came to fruition. In terms of the totality of impacts to the community and certainly traffic and safety and those things are very much a part of that. This proposal, to me, realigns what the land use should be at that site to what I think it has historically been envisioned to be. And it also, along the way, reduces the overall impacts to the community, you know, for the entire community. And that's important. Not just, you know, the traffic piece, but, you know, the other fiscal. Aspects as well. One thing I would say, you know, to the to the applicant, depending on how this goes down with our recommendation is to hear what folks have said about the eminent domain language. I just don't think even if it was in the original proffers that it belongs in a proffer statement. And frankly, nothing stops anybody from asking the board to consider that if at some point they find a need for it. But having it in the proffer. It's not something that I would say. I don't think anybody in the board of supervisors. Says something different. In my mind. And so I would encourage the team to revisit that before it reaches the board of supervisors. But that's that's what I have to say. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Moan. Anyone else? Mr. Morse. Thank you, Mr. Moan and Mr. Thomas and Mr. Oates. I. Agree. Primarily. With you. What was done in the past. We can't. Make improvements on. When we look at the impact that could have happened versus the impact that will more likely happen. We're moving in the right direction. I am like the rest of that original proffer situation that imminent domain. Things should never have been in there in the first place. No developer should ever come to the county expecting us to assist them in getting their project completed. That should not have been in the language in the first place. It should be an easy answer to strike it. Now we could ask them to go back and consider it and come back again. But that would be a quite unnecessary delay. But I'm just thinking the original language was was horrible and should never gotten through in the first place. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Morrison. Anyone else? Yes. Mr. Triplett. I will have to support this also, even though I know it's going to disappoint a lot of people. Mr. Chairman, I have a question. Ms. Kozell. If this application goes through the process here and it's approved and then it goes on to the Board of Supervisors, is there no changing the application as it's been submitted? Or do we still have the opportunity to make revisions to what has been proposed? I think the short answer to that is yes. I think the short answer to that is yes. I think the short answer to that is yes. I think the short answer to that is yes. crecretto.net looks human biases as one of the neighbours and they're the key criminal businesses. I think it's very impressive that they have to have a natural premise to what they represent. Now, a stringset strand of that would be Webinar care effective Century Poor COVID-19 in their capacity as a community. And so her response to that would be. The coverage out of the Commission on Iowa is encouraging that as we look at first steps a year centering those efforts. Which marks the 12th year of this effort to raise funds out of our nonprofit, support us. Joe Spah Smooth材 họ Much more than 2000 hundred dollar fund a year, and of course, the Department of Health come up with some legislative via utility plans as they execute these technology. The Council has collateral funding from the Interxx. We have Mayor Townsend's MN now. We're an advisory board, is basically what we are. And so we're here to listen to the citizens like we did at the public hearing. And again, tonight we recognize that. So to answer your question, no, what we're doing tonight is the first step. It goes to the Board of Supervisors, and hopefully the applicant is listening real well. And I'm seeing some head shaking back there, so I think it's a very good point. But no, it could morph into something even better going down until we get to final approval by the Board of Supervisors or disapproval. We don't know yet. Okay? In the timeline of the construction, I couldn't remember when the phasing would start, given if this application was approved. Does anybody recall when that time frame was? I know it's not going to start tomorrow, but were we looking? You're saying like when the project would start itself? I believe that would be something that the applicant would have to ask, but I don't remember looking in there, seeing in there. That's usually market-driven, a lot of that. So when the market conditions are. Are such, and they have what they need to move forward, so it's usually market-driven. So to put a date, whether it's going to be 2022 or 23 or fall 2021, I'm not sure if they even know that. It's probably market-driven more than that. But they do have triggers in there for those phases of when that work would take place. Okay? Okay. Thank you. I'll just, so if no one else has any more comments, I will agree with all my commissioners on that, that eminent domain is the slippery slope. It is one that is that. Been around that before in my career, and I strongly suggest the applicant look at that, because with that clear definition of where we're going on that, that's just the taxpayers picking up the tab. And that's all that is. And so that's my, that'd be my two cents worth. At this time, I'll entertain a motion. And this is Shawnee District. It's Ms. Kozel. If you feel comfortable making the motion, if not, we can pass on to one of our senior members, if not. I don't feel comfortable on this subject. Okay. Regardless, but I can make a motion. Okay. To move this application forward to the Board of Supervisors at the July meeting. Okay. And you're making a motion for approval? I am making a motion for approval. Thank you, ma'am. I have a motion for approve, rezoning 01-21. Do I have a second? Second. Second. I have a second. And I'll start with Mr. Molden this time. Molden, no. Morrison, reluctantly, yes. Dawson, yes. Malone, yes. Truffaut, yes. Thomas, yes. Coates, yes. Marston, yes. Jewell, yes. Kozel, yes. And the Chair votes yes. This motion rezoning has been approved. Goes on to the Board of Supervisors for the July 14th. Meeting. Back up here a second. Thank you for all the participants. Our next item is our other item on our agenda. One of the things I did have on here we've already talked about. Mr. Marston is his last meeting tonight, and we'd like to thank him for his service again. So I did have that. We do have a meeting coming up on June 16th. We do have. I have no staff looking at me, so we do have a meeting on June 16th. With that, I'll have a motion to adjourn. So moved. Second. And all those in favor to adjournment say aye. Aye. We're adjourned.
