Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2021-09-01
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=102
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next item on our agenda is the adoption of our agenda. If there's no changes to our agenda as it's been presented tonight, I'll accept a motion to approve. So moved. I got a second. All those in favor, signify aye. Aye. Our agenda is adopted. We have meeting minutes. I see none. I don't believe we have any meeting minutes to approve tonight from our prior meetings. So we'll move forward to our committee reports. And the only one I think we have is comp plan committee. We don't. I don't have one from there either? Okay. Sounds good. And if there's no other committee members that has a report, I think we're pretty much clean slate. And I see no one from the liaison from the city of Winchester. So I think we've got a clean slate on committee reports tonight. The next item on our agenda is our citizen comment portion. Anyone that's in our audience tonight would like to come forward to speak to the commission on any item that's not listed on the agenda tonight. Please come forward at this time. Seeing no one, we move right to our public hearing portion. Our first public hearing is a rezoning number 04-21 for Oreck Commons. Ms. Perkins. Thank you. Chairman, members of the commission, this is a proposal to rezone 33.61 acres from the RP, residential performance district with proffers, to the residential performance district with revised proffers. So to orient yourself for this property, the property is located off of Sensany and Greenwood Road. You have Sensany. This is the area that runs along the frontage. Greenwood Road is a little further to the west. This orange area is the commercial piece of Oreck Commons where you had the old food line and then you had the steeplechase subdivision and then the terminus of Farmington on both sides of that property. So this piece is part of the original Oreck Commons rezoning. It was approved back in 2006. That rezoning did include both commercial and residential age-restricted housing. So this piece before you tonight is a proposal to rezone 33.61 acres from the RP. The piece before you tonight only pertains to that 33 acres of residential. The B-2 property stays the same and it will continue to be under the 2006 proffer statement. With that, I would note that separate proffers for these two pieces really wouldn't impact anything. I know with other projects that we've seen, separating proffer statements can cause issues. However, with this piece, all of the B-2 improvements have already been completed. So having two separate proffer statements. Wouldn't create any kind of hurdles between the zoning districts. So the 2006 rezoning, it proffered 3.5 acres to the county as a park. There's also a proffer for an existing pond within that park area to be maintained. The proffer also allowed for that 3.5 acre park area to count towards the open space of that age-restricted development. So really what you would have is that if you had a park area, you would have a 3.5 acre park area. So that would be a lot of space. So what you would have is that if a park was dedicated within the development, it would go to Frederick County for use by the public. So it would be open to anyone. Kind of another piece of that is if the county did request that area, it would have to be an agreement between the county and the applicant, which most likely when that time came would be the homeowners association. So what's before you tonight? They are seeking to eliminate that proffer for the 3.5 acres. So they're asking for that, and they're asking for a cap now. So that's the same as the 3.5 acres that were reserved for the park area. So they're requesting for that to go away. I would note that in the review agency comments, Parks and Recreation did comment that they would like to see that park area retained. And then another little piece kind of with this amendment is they're actually putting a cap now on the number of housing units that they would do. They are limited to a maximum of 170 age-restricted dwellings. could be attached or detached, no more than 48 multifamily units. With the current proffer statement, they are allowed to do by right density, which could equate to about 201 units. So just really to recap all the proffers that you see within this statement, first that 170-unit cap. There's a proffer for preservation of a stream channel. They are continuing to proffer the extension of Farmington Boulevard through the property. They're keeping an interparcel connection with the commercial area. There's a proffer for a sidewalk to connect from Farmington to Lady Slipper, and they also have consistent monetary proffers from 2006. Just to kind of visualize that, in this area of Sensany, the commercial area with the old food line is right in this location. So you have the extension of Farmington, through Farmington Boulevard, through the property, the sidewalk-only connection to Lady Slipper. That's that stream area. And then once the multifamily would be designed, that's where that interparcel connection would happen to the commercial piece. With that, this is a public hearing item. I would be glad to answer any questions that you may have. We are seeking a recommendation from the commission to forward to the board. I don't see... The applicant. Any questions for Ms. Perkins? Mr. Mullen. Ms. Perkins, with the applicant seeking to do away with the park, have there been any discussions with them and with Parks and Rec staff about relocating it? I saw in the Parks and Rec comment that they were open to that, but it didn't seem to be something that resonated or stuck with the application. Can you address that? Yes. Can you address that? The applicant is really seeking to just eliminate the park. Their discussions with Parks and Recreation, it was not something that they wanted to see, even a relocation. So they moved forward with a complete elimination of that and the farm pond. Okay. Thomas. Has the applicant offered anything to the county instead of the park? No, the other monetary proffers remain the same for all those categories in the transportation proffer. Okay. Mr. Strodes. Just to cap, really the brunt of this is we're getting 31 fewer houses and not getting a park. Everything else stays the same. Right. Than what they could build today. Okay. You know, they always say that things are too good to be true, so I'm just waiting here. This just seems too simple, but maybe it's just me. But I must be missing something and I'm not sure what it is, but it doesn't sound like it's an issue. Mr. Morrison. With the pond, with the revised plant, they're going to be building houses where the pond was. I'm assuming there's no wetland considerations there, drainage or whatever? If you, direct you onto the screen, it's a very small old farm pond. Yeah. So. Water comes from somewhere. Right, and any of their designs would have to meet stormwater drainage, all that when it's reviewed by Public Works. Okay. Mr. Thomas. The size of the pond now. It's very little. Acre, half acre or less than that? Quarter acre or less. It's very small. I think, are we looking at it there, Ms. Perkins, right there? It's this little circle. Right there. Right there, good. So, I mean, within the 33 acres. I thought that was just a dark circle. It's very small. Yeah. Okay. Any other questions, Ms. Perkins? Thank you. And I don't see the applicant tonight, so. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, the applicant's not here, so I'll just move right into the open to public hearing portion. So if anyone would like to come speak to us concerning this matter, please come to the podium, state your name and your magistrate district, and come forward. Yes, ma'am. I'm Christine , district. I live on Farmington Boulevard, which I'm two houses away from it. Two concerns that I have. And I'm a list. about it it's come up with our neighborhood with our HOA we spent thousands on our own house our backyard to get a new swale put in the drainage was horrible we just had a pond not like that size in our backyard so we personally spent money to fix the drainage people who are on our day of which runs perpendicular have major issues with flooding in their backyard and they've got the pond area there and I know we met with the developer and brought that up and they said they take care of that but it does concern me a little bit with a pond like you said being there that the water has to go somewhere and I don't want the money we spent to be ruined so that definitely is a concern for our neighborhood and then also a stop sign if there's any hope of getting a stop sign put in because right now the cut through neighborhood has a lot of stop signs and it's still very well traveled this is going to be a straight you know it's going to be a straight road and it's going to be a straight road shot and cars already with a dead end drive really really fast and we have kids who have lived there we've had 12 years of nothing so I was just hoping a stop sign could be put in on Farmington on our day if there are Farmington and whatever the new road will be so thank you ma'am anyone else I come for yes sir Adam Spates Redbud I live right on Banbury Terrace right behind the new property my question is what is the cost of the property and what is the cost of the property and what is the cost of the property and I'm sure the question would be is what kind of easement is going in behind our house from their property line to ours I say that because we've enjoyed woods for the last 11 years we've lived there and it's nothing but woods behind us and we have a ton of wildlife coming through people you know they come in they build I get that but we're looking for some kind of shading easement so they're not pretty much ripping every tree out of our backyard if there's a 50-foot easement to the back of their property we're trying to understand what that means and I'm not sure if we can get a lot of money from that but I'm sure we can get a lot of money from that but I'm sure we can get a lot of money that's going to be as well as timeline of development so thanks sir anyone else yes sir yes my name is Chuck Lloyd uh owner property on Cincinnati Road that adjoins what they're doing here I couldn't quite hear what the gentleman just said there it might be the same question I have what type of buffer is there that's going to be used to build the property and what type of buffer is between or common ground is between the existing properties and what they're building there I'd like to know what that would be I think sir I would have to direct you to contact staff and so that's they would answer those questions we don't get into a question and answer period but if you contact staff they'll provide you with all the setback and the buffers and the screening that both you gentlemen brought up so they those ordinances are in place for these type of developments so say contact contact staff Frederick a planning department down there they're glad to help you all right thank you anyone else all right then I'll close a public hearing any discussion among the mr. Oates Candace could you address the buffer do you know that I'll stop you Ed all right okay so thank you baggie thru d reduzition warranty through the bionic legal B dement in fact if you just organism is a that's a category a buffer that's a distance of 25 feet it has an opaque element and then three plants per 10 linear feet but like I said that's only going to be dependent on any of those potential single-family there are larger buffers when you're talking about you know kind of the multifamily but that doesn't apply to rural land so when you look at the zoning maps kind of this this area that doesn't have any coloring with the orange or the yellow that's owned our a rural area so there is not a buffer requirement between anything RP and an RA you're only going to see buffers okay plan that you had the next sheet or so there you go try go to that one there and kind of walk through what you were just describing maybe they can get a better feel for maybe zoom into where they were at yeah how does you been on this one it's not like but right so you have the Farmington in this location so buffers are dependent upon housing types so anything that is in more likely this area it's going to be a single-family detached there is no buffer requirement between what is around them which is single-family detached and whatever single-family detached they do in this so they are is no requirement for them to keep what is there but that's the same with the current zoning as well as this proposed proper amendment if they did any type of townhouses single-family attached then that's a little bit of a buffer is a 25 foot category a buffer there's some plantings in an opaque element and then like I said this is the these are the areas that are still zoned agriculturally this is where the multifamily is going to be so you would really only have buffer-based areas or then like I said this is the these are the areas that are still zoned So the multi-family's going to be so you would really only have buffers on the so you worked to get the area up-to-date so the multi-family has to stay so this is the site there's not some kind of a buffet but you're going to have a buffer so in the have buffers kind of when you had that attaching other types of units within other subdivisions but not in this case agree it shows up well on the back on that color but not not the white screen sorry to answer their questions it sounds like there will be no buffers they'll be able to go build up to the property line like your development did up to their property line right just like your backyard backed up to them when you constructed their backyard or back up to you any other questions miss Perkins that finish you what about the the question that was brought up about stop signs what is there a requirement when you do put a stop sign on a property line that's not a stop sign on a property line put something like that in place you know is a traffic analysis done or what's the there is a scroll through my proffers here with stop signs that's really and mr. bishops here if I'm gonna punt that to mr. bishop mr. Sowers had actually reached out to me after speaking with some of the neighbors regarding this specific concern long story short we can't require a stop sign in the form of a proffer you may be used to seeing proffers for traffic signals or covering the cost of a traffic signals however even in those situations they can't be placed until they meet VDOT warrants what I have already relayed to mr. Sowers and he is working on with VDOT as part of the the subdivision planning analysis as they submit as they move into their actual subdivision plan is that we're supportive of stop sign we don't have any problem with a stop sign but at the end of the day it will be allowed or not by VDOT I can see their concern you put this piece of road in place then you got a run going from chanting drive over to the other existing Road I mean you're in quite honestly if you look at it on Google Maps it's going to be a nice little cut through for a lot of people so I can really see where they're concerned about this following on that yeah so I understand the stop sign situation given what mr. Jewell just pointed out you know you got a long straightaway for Farmington has there been any discussion about you know other traffic calming measures that could be implemented that you could there be a commitment you know to that that might be palatable to the county and VDOT that could at least help slow things down a little bit or give a little bit more of a sense of control once again it does end up being a discussion with VDOT traffic and engineering and come down to what they'll allow we're not once in a situation where we can require it and to be terribly honest the problem you get into in this conversation with VDOT traffic engineering because I've had it with Brad Riggleman at Edinburgh already a few times we have a very chicken-and-egg scenario they don't want to put anything that's not warranted in and you don't know it's warranted until it's under traffic and after the developers already built it and moved on so I'm definitely at length pointed out that disconnect for the county to VDOT but I'm still not sure it's been necessarily addressed but just to kind of point out the the difficulty of that conversation at this point there there is not to be honest a clear answer so far but that's that's the situation we're in yeah I understand that I think it's and I think it's frustrating obviously that it puts us in a position where we can't really be proactive, obviously, where I think this is a great example of where we could be, you know, potentially. So just a little something else to carry back. Absolutely. It's frustrating for staff as well, and it's not one we've given up on. I can assure you of that. Thank you, sir. Mr. Oates. John covered it pretty good. I mean, we've been dealing with this down in Raven and Wayne and a few other places, and it's tough. I mean, we've done VDOTs come back and painted stripes to try and narrow down the lanes. But trying to get the warrants and put a stop sign in place, it's VDOT roads. All we can do is beg and hope they hear us. Okay. Thank you, sir. And I know that he was a little tardy. He was tardy. But if Mr. Sowers would like to come forward, we'll just reverse back a little bit, even though we closed the public hearing. I think if anyone has any questions for the applicant, Mr. Thomas, and I'll go to Mr. Mon. Mr. Sowers, since you're getting rid of the pond, and I'm looking at the topo there, of course I can't read any. I can't read any numbers from this distance. But when you get rid of the pond, what is the drainage system going to be? Two questions here. Where does the pond get its water now, and how are you getting rid of the pond water, regardless if it is surface water or if it's a spring or whatever? How are you getting rid of it that it doesn't end up in the backyards of those people all along? It's an odd. It's a good question because you hear pond water drains to a pond. The pond's actually roughly at the high point of the property. It's a very shallow pond, and I'm not sure if years ago, how many pigs a farmer put in there to really get it that tight. Water has to come from somewhere. It does from somewhere, whether it's some sort of subsurface water that we're going to have to address at the design phase. But the site actually drains from that point, which is roughly where that side cul-de-sac comes from halfway down, and it does end up draining down where that, if you will, is the water that's going to come in. The ephemeral stream channel is marked in the circle there on the southern part of the property. So it actually drains. Water does not drain to the pond as much as it's draining away from the pond. It's relatively flat at the top part of the site where the pond is, but water's not collecting from the broader site into the pond. On the backside of your site there, next to those homes that are there already. Yes. And again, the topo there looks, I mean, I can't see it. I can't really see it good enough. A small portion drains. It looks a little unusual, and it looks like it drains down into their backyard from your site. Sure. This site drains in about five different ways, and there is a small area that does drain towards the backs of the lots at Steeplechase. When we build the road, we're actually going to decrease the drainage area going towards Steeplechase because now you're going to have houses in the front half of those lots coming down towards the street. So it's actually shrinking the drainage area that's going to those lots, and currently there's drainage easements now going through those properties, but we're going to ultimately have less drainage area going to those lots. You're going to shrink the drainage area, but you're going to increase the hard surface area, so I'm not sure whether you're going to shrink the amount of runoff or not. With the energy balance and not being able to exceed the 10-year storm and not being able to exceed the pre-development flows, we won't be sending more than what's going through there now. Yeah, but realize that if I'm a property owner there, and after you build that development, and I get water in my backyard, first thing I'm going to do is call the county and scream my head off that you screwed up my backyard and you have water in my backyard. Do you have pictures that show that those backyards now flood in a normal rain and you're not going to increase the flow? I think that's going to be a tough one to prove. Sure. I mean, really what we tried to do with this application was take an existing, take an existing project that could be more dense than what we're proposing, ring it with single-family detached so you actually have more similar housing types adjoining the existing housing types, because under the current zoning you could do single-family attached, grant it with that small buffer, but you could have more density adjoining those projects, the existing projects. So we were trying to have the single-family ring the site, actually decreases drainage area long-term, but as far as, but as far as kind of creating a paper, a paper trail like in today's storm versus the built condition, I mean, the standards are there in place so that, I mean, we, to see the pre and post development flows. I don't, I don't know what to do beyond that. I understand what you're saying. You would have a problem now, so you're still going to have a problem with the new development unless you address the drainage here. And looking at the topo, I can't see that you've addressed that. I mean, really though, we're at a GDP phase. I mean, that's really a, I understand that. I was just, that's a suggestion when you get into the, into it further. Absolutely. Totally understand. Thanks, sir. Mr. Moan, did you have another question? Just, Patrick, the question came up, I think, when you arrived, there was the discussion about buffers and what, you know, what buffers would be required. And obviously based on the change with the single-family detached around the outside, which I think, I think does make a lot of sense, you know, kind of going like product, like product. But I think, you know, it's a fair question about, you know, the ability or if there's any ability where there are some of the existing, you know, mature trees, is there any effort or any ability to preserve any of that? Or, you know, I speak from some fresh experience because I'm in a neighborhood where Abrams Point now is extending back, and I've got neighbors across the street that all of a sudden have seen things that they've never seen before, you know, and so it's a shocking, thing, you know, so I think based on the current zoning, there's no commitment to do anything like that. But I am curious based on the public comments. So on, you know, once you start mass grading and trying to tie those grades out, it gets pretty difficult to kind of spot keep certain parts. I mean, generally we were kind of shifting that three and a half acre park area from, from the west side of the site to a larger area on the east side of the site. And that's really where I think, I would not be able to not touch existing trees, whether we're tying out grades and maybe they stop five feet short of the property line. I think it could be possible, but until we really get into kind of the full final design, it's hard to say. I mean, really the thought process was again kind of, it's the same kind of what's happened on Farmington. We've had Briarwood start, then Steeplechase come in. It's been this kind of slowly filling in the gaps and generally, we were trying to put like housing types of like housing types to avoid the buffers, quite honestly. But once we got in final design, we might be able to save some trees, but it's I think a long Steeplechase. I don't see, I mean the trees there aren't even, there wasn't mature trees to begin with. It was kind of scrub cedars, things like that. So I guess to answer your question, it's hard to say we're going to be able to provide a legitimate strip of existing vegetation to stay. Thanks, sir. Thank you. Mr. Oates. Patrick, since you can't commit to the trees, I've got a six foot fence, privacy fence between the adjacent subdivision and your subdivision. On Steeplechase and we really, that would be a long, we can look at whether it be buffers or fence. I mean, I struggle a little bit with a project that wouldn't have to provide it now. I can grant it. I know we're asking for changes, but it's, when it's like housing types, I struggle with that. But we could look at whether it's screening or a six foot fence, whether or not those go in. I can commit to that. Do one or the other. Yes. Just had one more follow up question. It kind of popped up the, of course, Parks and Rec is interested in there still being a park. A public park there or relocating it somewhere else on the site. And I understand the rationale for not having a public park in an age restricted community and why that is not desired. You know, another commissioner did ask the question of, you know, was there any kind of, you know, alternative that was being provided to the parks and rec to kind of compensate for the fact that something they were expecting as a public facilities being taken away. If you could touch on what you've had in terms of discussions with them. The existing proffers are worded where it's, it may be dedicated to the county subject to the applicant and the county agreeing. And this was where looking at as the applicant, we wouldn't see a dedicated park with an age restricted community kind of making sense to us. Now, all of that being said, if, if we fast forward 10 years, 15 years, if we want to put a bubble and say this area could be dedicated again, we can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. I'm fine adding that language in. I just see it as a, you know, slim at best chance that an HOA for an age restricted community would want to dedicate land within their project for a county park. But, that being said, I don't mind keeping that potential open. And, can I add one thing on transportation since it came up? Sure. So, we did meet with VDOT already because we looked at the Lady Slipper and how that couldn't tie into Farmington. And, I did meet with the adjoining HOA who brought up the question about the traffic coming through. And, kind of like everybody's already said, we are, whether it's a stop sign or something there, we're totally fine incorporating that into a design. But, again, you have the warrants. The proffer right now does state that it will include traffic calming measures acceptable to VDOT. So, whether that's a choker or something like that, Siebel Chase has a choker where they shrink down the length. It's a choker that's in the middle. That's in the proffer currently. And, as far as if we start the project and then later there's a better alternative, the project does right now with monetary proffers provides for $485,000 for transportation improvements. So, not saying we want to build something and have somebody change that right after, but there's funds there, better alternatives show up five years down the road. Thank you, sir. Anyone else for Mr. Sowers? I always think it's interesting. We'd be careful when we ask for certain things because I was out there today, looked at the site and it was raining and what have you. It's been kind of grubbed. It's been, and one of the homeowners up at the top, he was looking forward to all those trees coming out alongside his property. So, you never know. You never know what you're going to get into. It's hard to please everybody, but our developers do try to do the best they can with the ordinances we got. So, thank you, sir. Thank you. All right. We have already closed the public hearing. We've had a pretty good discussion. And this is my Redbud district. So, it's time for. There's no additional discussion, Mr. Chairman. I would move that the Planning Commission recommend approval of rezoning application number 04-21 for Oral Commons, but with the caveat that the applicant work with staff between the Planning Commission and the Board to address the commitments to potential buffering along adjoining, neighborhoods, as well as the alternative for some alternative park language to leave that option on the table, if mutually agreeable to the different parties consistent with the current language. All right. I got a motion. I think I just heard a second from Ms. Dawson. This time. Okay. Thank you, sir. And then I'll start with Mr. Morrison then. Mr. Morrison, yes. Mohn, yes. Herpnit, yes. Thomas, yes. Oches, yes. Mender, yes. Newell, yes. Brombeck, yes. Kozell, yes. And a chair votes yes. So, this is approved. It goes to the Board of Supervisors for the September 22nd meeting. Thank everyone. Where did he go? Our next item is an information discussion item. And I think we'll keep Ms. Perkins up for this one. It's the update to the Frederick County Comprehensive Plan. And thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Commission. Before you tonight is the direct update to the Frederick County Comprehensive Plan. The Code of Virginia does require localities to review their plans every five years. So, our current plan, the 2035 plan that's in effect, was adopted back in January 2017. So, we're coming upon that deadline to have an updated plan adopted in January. So, the Comprehensive Plan as a whole consists of three sections. There's the main document, which we call the plan. That document has chapters that focus on various aspects of the county's vision for the future. You have the urban areas, rural areas, residential, business development, transportation, public facilities, natural resources, and historic resources. You then get down into the appendix. There's appendix one, which is your small area plans that does have all of the maps for future land use, as well as the guiding text. And then you have appendix two, which is your background, demographics, statistical data. So, with the update before you, you're going to see your primary changes. First, we'll go through the main plan. So, a lot of the text that you see, that red line text, I kind of go through each of the sections that have kind of the most kind of visible changes. Your urban areas. So, really what you're seeing in there is a lot of kind of shifting and consolidating of text. There's some clarification of existing policies. You'll see some tweaks with the urban center, neighborhood centers. You're really not going to see kind of fundamental changes in that section. It's all similar goals, similar policies. Rural areas, what we did was try to provide some greater overview of a lot of your conservation tools and your trends. So, there's a lot of kind of additional information. There's some explanations for, say, your agricultural districts, your TDRs, taxation, conservation easements, zoning. Business development, a lot of those changes were really just updates to the informational items based on current data. There's some updates to the agribusiness section to include some text about solar. The transportation chapter, Mr. Bishop drafted those changes, took them to the transportation committee. So, that's a lot of minor changes really to just reflect current improvements and policies. Public facilities, there are a number of changes in that. We did send those chapters to the applicable agencies such as Frederick County Public Schools, Fire and Rescue, Frederick Water, just so that they can kind of go through, amend those pieces to reflect their current adopted plans. There's also some general text to address broadband and telecommunications. Natural resources. There's some changes to the urban center. There's a minor change in there about inundation zones that are required by the state code. Now, the appendix one, you're not going to see a lot of actual changes just because these are adopted small area plans. So, you're looking at growth boundary changes really reflective of, say, past comprehensive plan amendments. There's transportation updates based on new policies as well as things that may have been completed. Appendix two, like I said, is background data. So, that's kind of the piece that you're going to see the most changes in just because a lot of the changes are being made in the past. And then, you're going to see some changes in the new policies as well as things that may have been completed. So, I'm going to go ahead and show you some of the changes that we've been doing. And then, I'm going to show you some of the changes that we've been doing. And then, I'm going to show you some of the changes that we've been doing. So, like I said, a lot of the chapters were sent to agencies that did have a major part in those. Like I said, schools, parks, fire. We did send to the airport authority, the EDA, Frederick Water and Transportation Committee. All of these changes went through the comprehensive plans and programs committee at a number of different meetings just due to the size of the text. So, it did go in March. And then, we did send to the Department of Transportation, the Department of Transportation, the Department of Transportation, Title II, and that's a little left out here, this quarter, I think. That's in a bunch of different ways. So, if you look at this, at that time we were doing these texts, whichț we'reoda ed to employees. We saw some changes at theだ mad, overview I would be glad to see questions and we're seeking any comments that you may have to forward to the board when they discuss this right thank you mr. Perkins spent a lot of hard work getting here any questions and or comments about where we're at thank you oh oh I got yeah one thing I brought up a committee and I was told would be he's bringing up here instead is for the West you were early land use plan we just recently did a change of zoning for that and I think we need to update that map to show where the land went from the RP back to RA change that land use back so that's now rural areas on that map okay thanks sir since that was a recent change just got done me I think we need to update that before it goes forward for adoption okay she's writing feverishly right now all right all right anything else sorry I missed you all right Thank You ma'am this brings us to mr. Wyatt Pearson who's going to give us an update on our current plan applications and mr. Pearson Thank You mr. chairman members of the Commission I have three items that I think are worth noting for you and they're all approved site plans the first is the Greystone Industrial Center phase 2 building 3 which is about 200,000 square foot warehouse in the vicinity of Snowden Bridge Boulevard and Milburn Road the Winchester Medical Center West Campus building is a 169 thousand square foot office and warehouse the approved site plan in the vicinity of Botanical Boulevard and the route 37 bypass and then lastly tidal wave auto spa and automated car wash in the vicinity of route 522 and route 50 if anybody else has any questions about any of the other plans that we have for the next three days we will be looking at them in the next few days. Thank you. the current planning applications on the website as they stand now be happy to answer them I want to thank mrs. Brumbach for catching a typo for back Creek Event Center I think was the name of it and it was intended to be back seat she obviously got a trigger being in the back Creek District so thank you again for that I'm happy to answer any questions all right one question mr. Oates again on the website I notice if try to pull up the agenda for say Transportation Committee instead it takes you to the Planning Commission and board agendas instead so I will be happy to answer any questions. there's some screw up there in the links there on the website thank you we'll get that addressed what else any comments well future meetings mr. Pearson we have one coming up on the 15th yes sir okay so put that on your counters everyone and we're down to the last of our meeting so at this time I'll seek a motion to adjourn if there's nothing else we've got a motion got a second all those in favor of adjourn say aye
