Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2021-12-01
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=112
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next item on our agenda is the adoption of the agenda, and I do have to make one announcement here, that the advertised agenda that we've seen had item 6A was a rezoning for Ms. Paula Henry, number 05-21. That's removed from tonight's agenda, and that will be on the December 15th agenda. Noting that change, do I have a motion to approve the agenda? So moved. Do I have a second? Second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Our agenda is approved. The next item we have is we have some meeting minutes, some housekeeping. We're going to be housekeeping for meeting minutes from our October 20th, 21 meeting, and our November 17th, 2021 meeting. If there's no changes to those minutes as presented, I'll entertain a motion to approve. Move for adoption. Second. I have a second. All those in favor of adopting those minutes, say aye. Aye. Those are approved. Our next item is our committee reports. We only have a few tonight, but I believe Mr. Oates has two of them. Transportation and DLM. I'll let him choose which ones he wants to lead with. Well, sir, transportation met on Monday, November 22nd. The first item we were going over funding scenarios and prioritizations for the county. In a nutshell, we're trying to figure out a way to get some money set aside out of the county budget so we can start being more successful with grants for roads and construction, really until Frederick County starts ponying up some money to get it done. We're going to be on the short end for a while. We also had a discussion about phasing 37, and that was it on that one. On DRC, the two items we discussed was pedestrian access and street design, both of which are going to be brought before us tonight under information discussion. And that committee met on November 17th. I missed that meeting. I'm sorry. The next committee report we have is Mr. Pfeiffer from our Winchester Planning Commission. He's our liaison, Mr. Pfeiffer. Yes, sir. I'll try to talk about it. So, during our question and answer meeting a few minutes ago, we just had a couple of minor issues. The Colt Peterson's car wash on Valley Avenue had some additional vacuum stations. We did a zoning ordinance for humanitarian shelters. The city required an RV1VYV2CY in the Meadow District in Winchester. Discussion in regards to North Cameron Street, where the zero pack is. We're zoning that area. We've one for higher ed state. We're a potential project for the low income housing. And as a second hand, we're going to take tires off the value outage. So, micro window and facade questions. And then the Enterprise garage. They were removing a building in the garage in the quarter we're going to have to do this. Thank you, sir. Good to have you with us tonight. That concludes our committee reports. The next item is our citizen comment. Anyone in the audience would like to come forward to speak to the Planning Commission about any items that's not on our agenda tonight. Please feel free to come forward. Come to the mic. Yes, sir. State your name, Magistral District, if you live in our county. My name is Bob Clark. I live in Pequen District. And I am a former police chief and veteran. I represent the Citizens Coalition, the Exit 302 Smart Development Coalition. We are a band of neighbors down in the southern tip of that Magistral District that are against the annexation of Middletown into the county proper. We feel we're going to lose some voice down there and suffer the impacts of any damage to the development that would come of that 316 acres versus, you know, we're in the county, so that's chunking out an island inside the county. Middletown's separate. They're not going to have any of the impact we are. We'll lose our voice. We won't have any standing to come before the Board of Supervisors or the town of Middletown. We're not against development. What we're for is smart development. One of the documents that I've read is the essential growth of the city's access for rural planning, zoning, and development codes. It's put out by the EPA. It's got great suggestions. I have it provided to one of the Board of Supervisors members, but it does put out some pretty good suggestions about how to blend development with the rural culture and try to maintain that, and that's what we're looking to do. That area's blown up in the last 10 years. I don't know if you've been down there. You know, we're representing Kendall Mills, Reliance Road, Buckthorn Road, North and South, and some Warren County residents who are concerned, and we also have some Middletown residents that are very concerned. You may see our signs down and around that way. But we look forward to working smartly with the Board, with your committee and the Board of Supervisors and the Rules and Regulations Committee in anything that we can do to help maintain that rural culture that we so much love down there. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your comments. Anyone else would like to come forward under citizen comments? Seeing no one, I'll close the citizen comment portion of our evening. We'll get right to our first item. Our agenda is Item 6B, which is a conditional use permit for number 12-21 for Hollow Road Solar LLC. Mr. Klein. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is a request for a conditional use permit to enable the construction of a utility-scale solar power generating facility on approximately 326 acres in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. The property is owned to R.A. Rural Areas, and the current land use of the property is agricultural, vacant, and forestal. You all will be familiar with this project. It's located on Parrishville Road in the Gainesboro District, just south of Route 50. For orientation, again, Parrishville Road forms the kind of western property boundary, and then Hollow Road forms the southern and the eastern property boundary. There's three parcels in this application. There's a parcel that abuts Parrishville Road, known as the Holmes property. That's an interconnection parcel and for access only, and I'll cover that in a little bit more detail. It surrounds the Gore substation, and then you have these two parcels here that are owned by Blue Ridge Land Holdings. The project will generate up to 20 megawatts of photovoltaic or solar energy, approximately 135 acres. The 135 acres of that site will be disturbed and utilized for the installation of solar panels, all of the necessary equipment to support the solar arrays, access paths, security fencing and landscaping. Power generated by this facility will be combined and converted and transmitted through the Gore substation to the overhead KV lines, which again I'll point out in just a second. This is the concept plan that is included with the application. Our zoning ordinance requires that, the conditional use permit is approved, a site plan will be approved, and this is kind of the first step towards that. This is the concept plan, which gives an overview of the site. Directing your attention to the screen again for orientation, Parrishville Road is this line here. The Gore substation is outlined in orange here, and those overhead transmission lines that I mentioned are shown here in the orange as well. The solar arrays are again on those two parcels owned by Blue Ridge Land Holdings, which are immediately south of the Woodham Orchard sub-district, and they're located in the same Orchard subdivision. There are two points of access. The first is across that Holmes property, which is an interconnection parcel, and then they'll also have an access for construction and bringing the materials for the project onto the site. The project also includes a direct 50-foot wide strip of land that connects to Anchorage Lane that is owned again by the property owners, and that will be used for passenger vehicle access and post-construction maintenance activities. What you see in blue are the solar arrays, so that's your 135 acres, and then this area that's kind of cut out here is that historic barn that was noted in the HRIB comments. The applicant has created essentially a 200-foot buffer around that structure, addressing those HRIB comments that are included in your packet. Where you see the pink lines around the perimeter of the project, that is the landscape buffer, and then the green is existing vegetation that will be maintained primarily along the hollow road area of the site. In addition to the requirements for a concept plan, the zoning ordinance also requires that a decommissioning plan be included in the consideration of utility-scale solar projects. The decommissioning plan addresses the removal of the equipment at such time that the facility is no longer in operation, and the restoration of the site to its pre-development condition, enabling it to continue to be used as an agricultural property. The decommissioning plan includes a monetary guarantee, essentially a bond with Frederick County to ensure that the cost of the removal of that equipment is covered, and the estimated cost for decommissioning, the physical removal of that, and the restoration of the land is slated to be updated every five years to ensure that the cost of removal and the cost of the restoration of the land is covered by that monetary guarantee. What the Planning Commission considers again is how the project relates to comprehensive plan policy, and what the comprehensive plan envisions for this area of the county is that it remains primarily rural in nature and for agricultural land to be preserved for future generations. In addition to what the plan says about this area of the county in particular, you all will recall that on our most recent update of the plan, approved in November of this year actually, there were some specific solar siting policies that were outlined in the plan. And the business development section. And what the section of the plan says is that solar is a highly passive use with limited impacts to the environment and to the rural character, that the implementation of this use does help to facilitate the preservation of agriculture and rural lands for future use once these sites are decommissioned, that solar is an opportunity for rural landowners to recoup value from their property without subdividing it and creating residential lots, and that tax revenue generated through the Machines and Tools Tax is a benefit to the county in addition to that land use assessment. And I believe the applicant will talk a little bit about the taxation and what that may look like for their project. In addition to the county's review and evaluation of the project through this conditional use permit, the applicant is also required by the state of Virginia to pursue what's known as a permit by rule, which is that state level administrative permitting, and it includes extensive environmental review and cultural review and study. And if one part of that permit by rule is local jurisdictional approval, so if this conditional use permit is approved, the applicant can continue down the road to get their permit by rule from the Commonwealth. One thing that has changed about this project since you last saw it was there was some significant legislation and changes to the Code of Virginia that for projects submitted after January 1st, 2021, the solar developers and the localities enter into a program that's called the Solar Facility Sighting Agreement. And that agreement is designed to mitigate potential impacts of projects on individual localities. In this solar sighting agreement, which was delivered to your desk this evening and noted in the staff report, the applicant has agreed to grant a conservation easement for the parcels that they control. That's Parcels 27A11 and 27A12, which totals approximately 236 acres. That at such time of commercial operation, they will place that land into a conservation easement. Further, they've agreed to extinguish all of the transfer of development rights, or TDRs, of that. What that will do, again, if they reach commercial operation, is ensure that in the future they're not able to subdivide it and sell lots off of it. So it effectively stays as a rural agricultural tract of land now and in the future. And that solar sighting agreement is memorialized in condition number four. And staff will note that ultimately the approval of that sighting agreement is an action of the Board of Supervisors. And this will go, the sighting agreement will track with the conditional use permit when it does go to the Board. So should the Planning Commission find this use to be appropriate, staff is recommending that the following conditions be assigned. First, that all review agency comments provided during the review of this application shall be complied with at all times. Number two, that an engineered site plan, in accordance with the requirements of Article 8 of the zoning ordinance, be submitted to and approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use, and that the site plan addresses the additional requirements and additional regulations for specific uses outlined in the zoning ordinance, and that the site plan be in general conformance with the concept plan included with the application dated November 5th, 2021. Number three, that person to the Code of Virginia, the owner, shall comply with the decommissioning plan dated November 5th, and shall update the decommissioning plan every five years. Number four, that at the time the project achieves commercial operation, the owner will grant a conservation easement for the property encompassed by tax parcels 27A11 and 27A12. It will execute an extinguishment of transfer of development rights for those parcels, and that these conditions shall be memorialized in a solar study agreement with Frederick County and form acceptable to the Board of Supervisors and person to the Code of Virginia, Section 15.2-2316.6. Number five, that batteries for the purposes of mass storage of electricity that will eventually be transferred to the grid shall not be used in the properties associated with the CUP. Number six, that access to the solar system, that access to the site shall be limited to two entrances, one entrance from Parishville Road and one entrance from Anchorage Lane, in conformance with the concept plan dated November 5th, and that delivery of solar array panel construction materials and equipment shall occur only at the site entrance off Parishville Road, identified as the primary access road on Sheet 3 of the concept plan, and that use of the 50-foot right-of-way ingress-egress secondary access road from Anchorage Lane shall be used only for passenger vehicle access during construction and post-construction maintenance. Number seven, that the pile driving of poles for solar arrays shall be limited to 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, and that all other construction activities are permitted 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday and 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday, and no construction activities are permitted on Sundays. Number eight, that a Phase I archaeological and architectural survey be completed as part of the permitting of this project and completed prior to site plan approval. The survey shall document the historic, dwelling barn and areas surrounding the farm complex barn located on parcel identified as number 27A11. This survey shall be submitted to Frederick County Department of Planning and the Department of Historic Resources, and that Phase II surveys shall be conducted if DHR determines that the areas and resources under consideration are potentially significant in the event that the above resources are eligible for inclusion. As a result of the Phase II study, the structures and resources on the site shall be retained, stabilized, and preserved, and no disturbance shall occur within 100 feet, and that any expansion or modification of this land use will require the approval of a new conditional use permit. So again, this item is presented to you all this evening as a public hearing item, and following the public hearing, it would be appropriate for the Planning Commission to make a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors, and staff would note that any recommendation by the Planning Commission would affirm that the proposed facility is in accordance with the county's comprehensive plan, and that the proposed facility is in accordance with the county's comprehensive plan. I'm happy to answer any questions you have. Mr. Patrick Grooms, representing the applicant, Blue Ridge Energy Holdings, is here this evening. I believe he has a few remarks for you all as well. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Any questions for Mr. Klein from the Commissioners? I have a question. I don't know. Ms. Broomback. The right-of-way that is the home's property that goes through there, that goes with the property, or are they granting that? I know... They already have that agreement in place to use that access point. Okay. And... But is that something... I know National Fruit used it before as well. Was that... Is it an agreement, or is it actually like a 20-foot right-of-way? I'll let the applicant speak to the width, but they do have an easement for use for this project over that parcel. Right. I understand that. What I'm getting at is, does it go with the property so that in 30 years, if it gets decommissioned, they can still use that right-of-way to come back through there? Or are they going to have to go through Anchorage Lane to get this stuff out? He's saying it. He's shaking it. No, he said yes, that it does run with the life of the project. It goes with the project. Yes. Yes, ma'am. All right. What else? I've got one question. Yes, sir. Number four under our conditions. The way it works, it says, at the time the project achieves commercial operation, that's when they will grant the conservation of the property. The conservation easement and will execute an extinguishment of transfer of developmental rights. What happens if it never reaches, achieves? They don't have to implement that. But they still own the property? Correct. And they still could do the transfer of developmental rights? Correct. Okay. Thank you. Yes, Mr. Thomas. Condition number seven, the driving of the piles from seven to five. Was that an applicant request or was that just, we just picked seven to five? We have been implementing that condition with all of the solar applications you all have been considering. So it has been a consistent condition among the two previous applications that have been approved. And for consistency, we're recommending the same condition be included with this application. Second question, back to the chairman's question. Number four, why wouldn't that be reworded to say at the initiation of construction? I have to defer to the county attorney to, he's been negotiating with the siting agreement. Williamson, would you mind comment please? I might want to defer to the applicant on that, but as far as what their feeling is. But the thought here is that the easement is supposed to protect the property going forward if it's developed as a solar farm. If they get to the point that they start work on it but don't go to, don't actually go to commercial operation, presumably then the decommissioning agreement would kick in. And then it would all revert back to what it was before this ever started. So I think their thinking is they don't want to restrict it and then find out that they can't go forward. Are you speaking of the easement? The easement. Okay. I think our question was more on the, on number four where it says it's time the project achieves commercial operation. That's when they'll grant a conservation easement. And that's what you're speaking of there, but also with the transfer of developmental rights. Why wouldn't that kick in at the time of the construction? So you're saying? I think they're the same. It does. It occurs at the same time, yes. Okay. But it doesn't occur until they achieve commercial operation. Correct. So if they can develop a solar field and as long as they don't commercially sell the power, they can then do transfer of developmental rights and they can, that part of the agreement is null and void. I think that goes back to what Mr. Williams said that they could, at that point the decommissioning plan would go into effect and the land would be restored and then there would be like nothing. They could develop however they wanted at that point. What if they transfer the TDRs before they go to commercial power production? Then those rights are severed at that point. They can't meet the condition if they transfer the rights. If they transfer the rights, they're not able to extinguish them. They can't extinguish them in fulfillment of this condition and therefore would never be allowed to proceed. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Klein. I had one other question. Ms. Brunbeck. In some of the reading, it's an 83-acre disturbed solar and then something up there you had 135 acres. 135. That was just a clerical error. So the 83 is not. It's 135. It's a disturbed acreage. Disturbed acreage, yes. Thanks, sir. Would the applicant, Mr. Brunbeck, just like to come forward, please? Mr. Chairman, commissioners, good to see you all in person this time as opposed to over a computer. I'd like to start not with the presentation itself, but I know you all also have a petition in front of you and I'm sure you would like to. I'd like to hear something about that. I read that petition several times in its entirety and I can break the categories of issues that they raise into at least three. One category would be general concerns about solar. Not specific to the site, but just general concerns about solar. I would submit to you that both the Planning Commission and the Board have dealt with that with the prior meeting. They have dealt with that with the prior projects that they have reviewed. And in addition, with the addition of the new language, the comprehensive plan. So the petitioners have every right to be heard. They have every right to make those comments. All I'm saying is I think the arguments that they are making there have been made before and have been addressed. And I would recommend to them that they read and watch the videotape from those proceedings. Layered on top of that is a category of demands that you impose numerous conditions on us as a landowner based on those issues. Again, because those are general issues that have already been dealt with, it seems inappropriate to then use those to require additional restrictions on our land rights. And then the third category really goes into the benefits of the project. And I would just say that the first category is the benefits of the project. And I would just say that the benefits of the project are the benefits of the project. And I would just say that I think the petition completely misses the mark on that one. I think Mr. Klein has talked to you all about this and in the presentation we will address that as well. But there is a significant benefit, a significant monetary benefit to the county from this project. And with that, I'll start. And I will say that some of the slides do address matters that Mr. Klein addressed. And I'm just going to skip over those in the interest of everybody's time. MR. Sure. MR. It's the general overview of the project. The only thing that's really important to this that Mr. Klein didn't hit is that bottom number because we're going to use that when we go and talk to about the estimated tax burden that the project will produce. We're using a number of approximately $25 million. That's for our project. When we get to the tax analysis, there's two separate ones. There's what's for our project specifically. And then I think it's important for you all to take a look at just sort of at a general level what can the county get from tax impositions on three categories of land rights. And then I think it's important for you all to take a look at just sort of at a general level what can the county get from tax impositions on three categories of land rights. Five megawatts and under, you don't get anything except the underlying land. Five to 25, you get uncapped M&T tax. Anything above 25 megawatts is capped at the underlying real estate rate. And that produces some over the, you know, a 30-year project that produces some materially different numbers for you. What it does is it allows those projects in that five to 25 megawatt space to compete significantly with projects multiple times the size because of the amount of land that they're getting. And that's what this project does. And that's what this project does. It allows those projects multiple times the size because they're paying much more, a much higher tax rate. So what's changed since the last time we talked? The board has amended the comprehensive plan. Mr. Klein addressed that issue. The siting agreement, he raised that as well. We obviously have agreed to contribute the land into conservation easement and to extinguish the TDRs. And there, as I said, there are significant economic numbers associated with that. This is just the language from the comprehensive plan. He's already gone through that with you. Unless there's anything specific about that, I'll just go ahead and skip over that. So the contribution of the land in easement. The first half of that slide addresses again exactly what Mr. Klein went through. There will be approximately 135 acres that is project property once the project is completed, which leaves just about 100 acres of undisturbed land. We would, upon reaching commercial operation, contribute that land into conservation easement and extinguish the TDRs. As you've seen, those are proposed conditions for the permit in the first instance. So what does that give you? It gives you a 30-to-35-year span under the life of the project in which no houses will be built. And on the tail end of that, nothing will be built either. Project has commercial operation. It can last for a year. It can last for 40 years. It doesn't matter. The land is in conservation easement. The county gets the elimination of those 47 units. So what does this mean to you monetarily? And Mr. Klein and I have talked about this, and I would say that anybody at the table there that has better numbers than these or wants to finesse them, we're more than willing to have it. But we believe these are based on numbers from a program that the county uses as well, and I would ask them to jump in here. So if you use 23,564 for each new residence as a capital cost, eliminating those 47 units eliminates just over a million dollars in capital costs for the county. And then we'll get to the generation of the tax in a few minutes. But if you add the tax that the project will be paying plus the elimination of the capital cost, you're talking about $3.3 million. And that excludes the annual operating costs associated with it. So that's a good thing. And then you add the tax associated for the schools for those units. You do the math on that at 18 students over 47 units, which I think is probably a conservative number, 12,507 apiece using 2018 costs. You save an additional $6.75 million. So let's talk about the tax for a second. And my apologies for this slide. I'm happy to just sort of talk to you about it, but the slide lays out in detail. It goes into detail. It does not include any tax. It's just a summary of the tax. I'm going to go back to those three categories of projects that I was telling you about and how the tax is imposed. Anything under 5 megawatts doesn't get an M&T tax. Anything from 5 to 25 gets an uncapped M&T tax. And anything over 25 megawatts up to 150 megawatts gets an M&T tax capped at the local real estate rate. Then we apply your depreciation schedule and the Virginia pollution control statute, which all projects are subject to. And then we'll get to the next slide. And at the very bottom, it shows the applicable rates and the assessed values. So anyone who's playing the real estate rate is paying, obviously, 61 cents. And we would be paying $2. So what does that mean just for a generic project? Not Hollow Road specifically, but as to those three categories of projects. It means on a per megawatt basis of the capacity of the project, that those projects in the 5 to 25 megawatts, size, are generating the greatest revenue for this county on a per megawatt basis. You're getting your biggest bang for your buck out of them. The red line is a fictitious 100 megawatt project just for demonstration purposes. But you can see the difference between those two lines over the life of a project. So I threw this up here just to sort of outline the projects that you've already considered. And lay that as background for the project that we're talking about here. We are much smaller, much smaller footprint. We've already talked about the tax issue. But I think there are some unique characteristics to this project that make it at least as good as the projects that have already gone through. And you can talk about the topography of that site, which I think Mr. Klein has talked about. We talked about the first one. You talked about the first one. We talked about the first one. And then the second one. So, you know, I think the first one is the the first one is the the first one is the the the the the the the the the the reason you finished at the midpoint here. We only have 135 disturbed acres. We own the land, which allows us to contribute it into easement and extinguish those TDRs. The land is zoned RA. Again, I think that makes it consistent with the new language in the comprehensive plan. This next point has been something that's been in debate. That land has not been harvested. It was not harvested for several years before we bought it. National Fruit put it on the market because they determined that they could not economically operate that property anymore. And so that was part of the driving force that led us to it because we have the same view that is consistent with your comprehensive plan. I live in a rural county. I live in the rural part of a rural county, not the developed part. And we have the same argument. And I have the same thought every day. What would I rather have sitting next to me, a solar farm or a housing development? And because solar farms both defer and possibly eliminate housing and bring unburdened tax revenue into the counties, we think they are more beneficial. Four to six month construction period for us, which means a very short period of disruption to the local community for construction. We also selected the site because it utilizes existing infrastructure. We don't have to take extra land to build a substation. Or to put overhead lines, long tie lines. We situated it right next to a substation. We've already talked about the paying the uncapped M&T tax. Land place and conservation easement, the last two points. So we've already hit both of those. So from our perspective, this is really an optimal project for Frederick County. And quite honestly, I would argue for most rural counties in Virginia that face the same sort of challenges that Frederick County does. We remove those 47 houses that are otherwise by right on the site. It's consistent with the county's comprehensive plan. Small footprint. Shorter construction period. Natural topographic screen features. Limited visibility. Does not remove farmland from currently productive use. Retires the TDRs. Eliminates the potential capital expenditures for the county. Pays the local uncapped M&T rate. Total estimated direct economic benefit to Frederick County. When you add those numbers together, it's, again, 3.3 without the operating costs and just over 10 with it. And the county's residents and those within the Shenandoah Valley Electric, should we say, cooperatives, service area will obviously benefit from the energy from that project. And I'll stop there and take questions. Thank you, Mr. Grooms. Any questions for the auditor? Thank you. Got one for Mr. Thomas. How many files will you be driving? Ultimately, it's going to depend on the way that the engineers would have to give you the answer to that question. But it's going to depend on the type of framing that they use to put the panels up. And it will be, in some areas, we try to make it as lengthy and contiguous as possible. But you've seen that site. So in some cases, we will have to break it up. That's suboptimal for us. It adds more cost. So our preference would be to make those as few as possible. But for this specific number, I would have to ask the engineers to give me that number. I know our past precedent has been to allow pile driving starting at 7 in the morning. But we haven't had any of the solar fields started constructing yet. So we don't know how that's going to be received. I have heard a lot of pile driving over the last 40 years. And would it be a great impact? Would it be a great impact on your company if the pile driving didn't start till 8? Other construction activities could start at 7, but you wouldn't start... Could we extend on the back end of the day the construction period from 8 to 6 as opposed to 7 to 5? Well, you could do the construction from 7 to 5, but just not drive piles till 8. Let me talk to the engineers. Actually, I believe you asked me last night to extend the boundary. And I did it without question. And I got smacked when I got back to the office. Only because it just required the engineer to have to go back and rework some stuff. And they don't like doing that. Let me ask them. My personal opinion is that's something we should take under serious consideration. I would rather see you extend it from 8 to 6 than start pile driving at 7. Because pile driving is very noisy. Understood. I absolutely understand that. I know it's been our precedent, but we haven't had any experience with it yet. Let me ask. And look, if the construction crew is going to be dedicated likely to the site for only four months, they should be able to work on that schedule. The construction guys will probably like it. But let me ask them. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you, sir. Ms. Diane Holmes, who is actually the co-applicant, is here as well. Can she... You can come forward, please. Sure. Ms. Diane Holmes, I live in the Shawnee District. But my home or the farm is in the Gainesburg District. Let's see. My family has owned the property for over 200 years. And it's been a farm for over 200 years. I grew up on the property, and my mom even worked for National. For 36 years. The property borders the project. A big border of the project. Holla Road was used... Will be using my road for the project. They'll be bringing their big trucks in and out of my driveway for the length of the project. Once that's complete, then all maintenance vehicles will go on Anchorage Road. Okay. There won't be no dump trucks on Anchorage Road to tear up the asphalt or construction dust. So that should alleviate some problem for those folks living on Anchorage Road. National Fruit decided to stop using it as a orchard several years ago. But when I was a child, they used it very heavily. And when they sprayed those trees, I got a nosebleed. I got a noseful of the spray. And the sprayer was very loud. So to me, putting in a solar farm is a lot more beneficial than having trees there and spraying everybody. The terrain of that area is, if it's like my farm, which I'm definitely sure it is, I picked up tons of rock. It's not feasible for housing development. Also, when Widom's Orchard subdivision was built, my family wasn't notified. Wasn't asked if we could buy Widom's Orchard to add to our farm. It was just done. The solar project will be locked, that land, for 30 to 35 years. But they've also offered more than that. They've offered. to place the property in conservation easement. They've also offered to extinguish the development rights. There's no housing development, no transfer of rights to develop anywhere in the county, no increase in burden on county resources, including schools, hospitals, police, and our fire department, no increase in taxes. Hollow Road will make significant tax payments, particularly when compared to neighboring properties. To me, I feel this is one of the things that President Biden has been currently speaking about. He talks about climate change, and he talks about clean energy. This is one of those clean energy items. We have others, but this is the one that concerns me the most. Our sun is a star. It's not a planet. So we need to preserve it as much as we can. Our ozone is being depleted, and in order to stop that from happening, we need to go to clean energy. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. This is a public hearing. At this time, I'll open the public hearing. For anyone who'd like to come forward, please come to the microphone. State your name and MedShell district. I don't see a large crowd. We'll try to keep this within three to four minutes. Comments, please. My name is Alan Mills, and I'm of the Gainesboro district. Residents of Witham Orchards and our surrounding neighbors enjoy our lifestyle and our stunning mountain views. We enjoy the quaint charm of the nearby farms, lush green cornfields, and the apple orchards that surround us. The residents of Witham Orchards appealed the board to consider that the proposed 300-plus acre solar project would turn our community into an industrial wasteland and jeopardize our health, safety, and peace of mind. This project would have absolutely no benefit to our community. Residents of the community do not want a single, single-use solar panel to block our beautiful mountain view. The residents of Witham Orchards appealed the board to consider that Gore, Virginia, currently has the Unimim Corporation Mine on the Sand Mine Road and an electrical power plant on Parrishville Road. This project would have absolutely no benefit to our community. There is enough commercial use of the solar panel, commercial use of land not adjacent to residential communities throughout the Commonwealth for such an enterprise. In March 2021, the Board of Supervisors denied Hollow Road Solar LLC's request for a conditional use permit, preventing the implementation of the planned solar farm project. However, in June 2021, Hollow Road Solar LLC finalized the purchase of the property previously owned by National Fruit Orchards, Inc., ETL, to proceed with a planned solar project, although this matter is still in litigation. It is disappointing that Hollow Road Solar LLC has moved into the community and has bullied the Board of Supervisors and county residents. Residents of Witham Orchards applaud the Board for putting the county's best interests first. Hollow Road Solar LLC has already proven that they do not have Frederick County's best interests at heart. Therefore, the residents of Witham Orchards, and our surrounding neighbors, urge the Board to stand by your commitment to serve the residents of Frederick County. Residents of the Witham Orchards would rather see the proposed project sites remain zoned for agriculture or conservation use. Agriculture is the gemstone of the Commonwealth. All over America, agriculture land is being subdivided and sold to corporations. This is a matter of great concern for the community. We are also aware that the residents of Frederick County are facing the consequences of the cooperation with corporations, such as Hollow Road Solar LLC, that have no regard to the communities they disrupt. As residents of Frederick County, we petition the Board to restrict the rezoning and subdivision of agricultural land near our community, because personal gain should never jeopardize the peace, health, safety, and well-being of an established neighborhood community. Thank you for your attention. Residents of Witham Orchards, and our surrounding neighbors, do not want to become the victim of urban sprawl and countless subdivisions. Eventually, this kind of overdevelopment will result in crime and the numerous problems we see in Northern Virginia. We, the undersigned, are opposed to the proposed Hollow Road Solar project. We call on Frederick County Board of Supervisors to, fully consult with local residents on any future proposals. Hold Hollow Road Solar LLC accountable for all that their enterprise will expose to our community. We appeal to the Board that the residents' concerns in this petition be addressed before considering the project's approval. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Yes, ma'am. Good evening. Thank you for the opportunity to represent neighbors and family. My name is Sarah Kite, and I'm, of course, of the Gainesboro District. And I live on the, I live adjacent to the property, in the cul-de-sac next to the Anchorage Lake. And I'm, of course, of the Gainesboro District. And I live on the, I live adjacent to the Anchorage Lake. We do, the Anchorage Lane cul-de-sac, but we do live in the property closest to the, the Hollow Road Solar property. We do have a very narrow strip of land, that is the parent tract of land, in between our, edge of our property, and, the property in question. And, I know you all have read the petition. And, I did a little bit of additional research that wasn't included in the petition. And, I know you all have read the petition. in the petition I'll be I'll be brief first you know we moved out we've lived in the county for 25 years and you know moved from Stephen City out to Gore because it was just beautiful the land is beautiful and you know that's the main reason why we move out there and if anyone has seen the solar facilities the utility scale solar facilities that have recently popped up in many places including our area the the most recent I've seen is is on 522 I believe that might be in Clark or Warren County and it's very industrial it does not really fit well inside of you know where we live and one of the things that I was doing research on was first I was doing research on was first the second phase that was recently approved for the Bartonsville facility I do know I've recently read articles in the Winchester SAR particularly on 1022 that where the residents down there were very sad about this second phase being approved and the fact that they've reported that neighbors are wanting to leave that area now we've even in our neighborhood had discussions about that should this get approved do we really still want to live where we are and that's unfortunate because you know it's it's where we live we've lived in that property for 16 years now so that that was unfortunate that happened in our County already there's a study from the University of Rhode Island that happened in 2020 of 400,000 transactions pre and post the building of solar scale utility skills solar facilities in both Rhode Island and Matt and Massachusetts that looked at the different property values and what happened to those places they found that with with homes and properties that were within a tenth of a mile which you know is 528 feet the property values went down seven percent my land is is very close to that five hundred feet I have not gone out and measured it in a day I have not gone out and measured it in a day I have not gone out and measured it you know directly but it is a very narrow tract of land from my property line to that and it does not appear to be even a football field we also have our two direct neighbors on Anchorage Lane that are butting right up against the property right now there's of course a hundred foot buffer between not five hundred and twenty eight feet that is going to directly impact because no one really wants to live next to a solar facility when it comes down to it I believe anyone that lives in a rural area would not want to see that every day no matter what and I do have a copy of this with all the links of all the summaries I did provide this to mr. McCarthy earlier this week there's also a University of Texas at Austin study done by the School of Public Affairs that looked at in 2018 that looked at a bunch of solar facilities 500 I'm sorry nine hundred and fifty four I believe I have the number in here all together and in both California and North Carolina and a couple of the things that they did is they look they talk to appraisers they interviewed appraisers real estate agents and others assessors and found that there is a negative impact for properties within one half mile of a 20 megawatt facility this is a extremely detailed study I think it's about 60 pages so we're talking about the same-size facility or output facility of the Hollywood Hollow Road solar installation and another part was you know even looking at public opinion about this people don't want to move near that so it immediately impacts us as residents near there I hate to interrupt you but you're a little over four minutes here okay sorry you start two more just just one more minute they also did an ArcGIS solar sighting analysis for those 956 and found that across all of those an average of point four I'm sorry a point four six houses were with were a hundred feet away from these properties and when you look at going more than that point seven three were a thousand feet and this is average across 956 so what that tells me is those counties those jurisdictions took proper precautions or not proper but you know caring precautions to help protect those residents against not only any other issues that these may bring but also issues related to having a solar facility near them so we just ask the Commission and then we'll again ask the Board of Supervisors that if this is a done thing give us more space we want more space between us and the facility between our property lines thank you ma'am thank you anyone else appreciate the opportunity to express my opinions on the solar farm my name is Dave alter I live up on Perry'sville Road we moved there a little less than two years ago it was our dream home to live out there and we have our life savings and we're going to be able to live there for the rest of our lives so in our home there and we are against the solar farm there are negative impacts that these solar farms do have as well there's positive but there are negative it affects the ecosystem we have a lot of wildlife that live back there and this would definitely affect the wildlife it also these solar farms put out electromagnetic waves they can affect health and my wife has had cancer and she deals with that and she don't need any extra disadvantages to the health because these electromagnetic waves and it does disrupt the beauty of the nature I know you can talk about buffer zones but this things on the side of a mountain you can put a hundred feet of trees at the top and hundred feet at the bottom but we live above it you can look over it if you're at the bottom you're gonna look up into this thing these trees aren't going to be really provide that much of a buffer as far as what you can see with the naked eye and I thank you for taking the time to hear me and we just ask that you would vote against this we're against the solar farm and I think it would have a negative impact on our neighborhood thank you thanks sir anyone else you public hearing anyone would like to come forward give them a few more else yes ma'am hi my name is Cheryl Alter I live in Erichville Road and my husband has declared that I've had cancer and I'm concerned about these hazardous material that's in the the pharmacist between of them what is that gonna do to our health is if panel breaks is that gonna disturb our water what about the animals we have lots of animals that come by and if they're beautiful and I'm just concerned about the whole thing because I don't want to get recurring cancer again I was supposed to die in 2015 and I'm still here and I don't want this to happen over again I don't want to suffer through the chemo and the radiation that I had to take just because someone wants a panel and it breaks what's it going to do is it going to be is it going to be uh hazardous to my health again I hope not but how will we know has anybody done any studies on that how many people has come down with cancer and bronchitis and COPD because we live next to a solar farm what's it going to do to us is it going to destroy our health and all the animals that live around about it is it going to have an effect on them sure it is they're used to their environment and we're used to ours and we want it to be like it is thank you ma'am anyone else um you, and I think starting at seven o'clock in the morning is a little early so I think eight to six still gives them the same number of hours it just delays it an hour there are some good points in this application I think we ought to consider including the conditions in number four in our zoning ordinance for all future solar farms where we cancel the TDRs they must they must agree to canceling the TDRs and put it in a conservation easement and you know I think it's going to be a good idea to have a just one last comment on solar panels I would rather see us require all new residential and commercial construction put solar panels on the roof and build solar farms I do not think this is consistent with rural areas but I'm in a minority I think on that so but that's my comments okay thanks or anyone else. Mr. Oates. I remember about. Twenty four years ago I think when the realtor. Came into the office. And I went up there we started surveying that property. And the neighbors are really upset to see a subdivision go in on George Williams property. But Mr. Whitman passed away and stay got it and it was being subdivided. Uh and that property went. The homes. That's why national fruit no longer. Could sustain an orchard up there there were enough ground left. Um. Sense. In. I've done a lot of surveying up on that Ridge luckily it's been for people like Cordell what he's buying up tracks. And trying to prevent houses from being built to me. The subdivisions are rural areas. Uh are more of a detriment. Last meeting when we had that uh the neighbors come in said he would want to live around solar panels. I went back and looked at all the different developments we can do in the zoning ordinance from farm markets to warehouses to housing development roads. I would take a. Solar field over any of those any day there's no noise there's no uh traffic. It's just the land is preserved for future. And the other thing we never seem to talk about is all these solar panels are coming on these old orchards. Has anyone really thought about what's in that ground because it's a lot of our stick a lot of. Copper. We did the Widow Mortar. There was some discussion there about whether or not. Solar test should be done because that wasn't over there's a lot of stuff but in the ground back then. So. Since but these panels over the ground keep it from being disturbed. For thirty four years might be a good thing. Thank you Mr Oates anyone else. Forgive me if I don't have asked in the back of my head some days but. Okay. Here another discussion this is a Gainsborough. Yes. Mr Triplett. Yes. And this is. A very good question. I think. It's tough. I understand. I have compassion for. The people here but. I think at this particular time. And be fair to the person. With this. Request for conditional use permit. I think that it's the thing to do. So therefore I will make a motion. For on the conditional use permit. Twelve twenty one. To approve that. On hollow road solar. LLC. Thanks sir have a motion to approve to have a second. Second. You have a second. You're with me. And I'll start Mr Molden. Molden yes. Dawson yes. Stone yes. Triplett yes. Thomas no. Oates yes. Emanuel yes. Jewell yes. Brumback yes. Cotel yes. Chair votes yes. This is goes with approved. To the board of supervisors for their December 8th meeting. And I'd like to thank everyone for their comments. And could thank the commissions. We move on to our next item on our agenda. Is the information discussion item. For some ordinance. Mr. Clown we have some ordinance amendments. Some steep slopes. Some farm wineries breweries distilleries. You name it. It's on here. So. Have at it Mr. Clown. Yes sir. So this. We felt it was most appropriate to kind of lump these kind of clean up general items together. So that's why we're presenting them. But I will walk you through each one. Again this is a request to amend our chapter 144 our subdivision of land and our amend chapter 165 the zoning ordinance to clarify amend and remove requirements contained in the following sections general provisions supplementary use regulations regulations for specific uses and design standards. The first item up for consideration pertains to steep slopes. This is in both the subdivision of land and our zoning ordinance. And this is a proposed revision to amend the definition for steep slopes from 15 percent and 50 percent respectively to 35 percent. Both chapters apply to many land development applications including subdivision site plans and TDR the TDR program and therefore the application of a consistent standard is necessary. And that's why we are recommending this. And that's why we are recommending 35 percent is that standard as it pertains to farm wineries farm breweries and farm distilleries. This is an amendment to part 204 the supplemental use regulations. And this is a proposal to remove the provisions for festival permits. The Board of Supervisors actually removed chapter 86 of the county code festival permits in the spring of 2021. Again this is a cleanup item that would eliminate that festival permit requirement for the farm wineries breweries and distilleries. And would remove the limitation of 100 persons permitted for those events. Our next item pertains to inoperable motor vehicles. And this is a change to the section containing the definition and also again those supplemental use regulations for specific uses. And this is a request to prohibit the unscreened storage of inoperable trailers. Trailers, camping trailers, semi-trailers. The zoning ordinance prohibits the unscreened outdoor storage of inoperable motor vehicles. But the definition does not include provisions for the regulation of trailers. And it's created a zoning enforcement challenge for our planning staff. And again this amendment is seeking to regulate those trailers in the same manner that we regulate other inoperable motor vehicles. Our next item up for consideration is as it pertains to pedestrian access. And this is in part 203 which is our off street parking ordinance. This is a request to amend the zoning regulations for the inoperable motor vehicles. And this is a request to amend the section for pedestrian walkways and trails to ensure that pedestrian accommodations are provided in conformance with our comprehensive plan policies. The zoning ordinance currently only requires sidewalks when they are planned as part of a corridor walkway plan. That's kind of a aged out terminology. But we want to ensure that those facilities are provided to implement plan policies for future roadways. And finally our last change going along the road. The last change going along with that pedestrian access is as it pertains to street design. This is actually a change to our subdivision ordinance which contains the requirements for each street classification. Your local streets, your minor collectors, major collectors, arterial roadways. And the ordinance amendment seeks to ensure that the design of those roadways fulfills future roadway classifications as specified in our comprehensive plan. It also meets all of the current criteria that VDOT requires for those types of streets. Presently the zoning ordinance contains vehicle trips and also minimum right of way. And we have found that that may be insufficient for the planned future conditions contained in the comprehensive plan. Some of those roadways require curb and gutting sections. They require sidewalks, trails, medians. So it's an opportunity to ensure that what the plan calls for is able to be implemented when we're reviewing subdivision design plans. Again, the next change going along the road. Again, these ordinance amendments are presented to you all this evening as a discussion item. They did go through the Development Review and Regulations Committee in both October and November. And the committee spent quite a bit of time discussing the merits of those. And they did support bringing them to the Planning Commission. Any comments from this group this evening will be forwarded to the Board of Supervisors for consideration. And at such time the Board may make recommendations in the public hearing, in which case it will come back to you all. I'm of course happy to answer any questions you have as it pertains to any particular ordinance or the ordinance amendments kind of lumped generally. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Mr. Oates. I have two questions. One is when we take away the restriction on the wineries and breweries and distilleries and go unlimited now. So anyone who wants to do an event center, if they'd simply open up a brewery, they can do everything they can do under an event center without having to come through for a CUP, correct? That is correct. So they can do it by right? They can do it by right. And the state code regulates what qualifies as a farm brewery or winery. So there's a lot of specific requirements for those to be implemented. And then on the inoperable vehicles, we discussed, which you weren't there, but under the port section about neither valid or license plates or inspection decal. We brought up farm use vehicles and trailers. Is that going to impact them since we don't call it out in here? I don't believe that that is presently how it is enforced. Farm use vehicles obviously have a special tagging and special regulation under the state. Actually, you don't have to have a tag on it at all for farm use. You can just run without tags. I'm looking to Mr. White. I know he was at that meeting. We did discuss that with our zoning inspector, and it's not going to be an issue. I think the conversation that was brought up was that if it's a farm use vehicle, it wouldn't necessarily have a tag. Right. It wouldn't necessarily have a current inspection, and we would not hold that against them as far as the application of this ordinance. On inspection or license? Yeah. Yes, sir. All right. That's good. Yep. Any other discussion? Thoughts? Preferences? If not, I think we can move it back, move it on. Thank you. All right. Appreciate it. This goes also to the board on the December 8th meeting. Thank you. Next one under other, I usually refer to Mr. Pearson. He might have some pearls of wisdom of what's going on in our county right now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Nothing really to note as far as current planning applications for the commission, but if you'll check your email when you get a chance, you received an email at the latter half of today to try to schedule a joint board and planning commission retreat in the new year. If you could please get us a response on your availability as far as that's concerned. And then lastly, we are planning to have a December 15th planning commission meeting. Sounds good. We look forward to it. And if there's nothing else to come before us tonight. One thing. One thing, Mr. Roach. Just for the benefit of some of the newer members, the presentation tonight where the guy was going over the taxes and that part of it, luckily the planning commission, taxes isn't even consideration for us. It strictly does it or does it not adhere to the comprehensive plan. So when it gets into politics, Biden, all that stuff, it doesn't matter. It's not going to be a problem. It doesn't matter. It's what the land use is. Does it adhere to the comp plan? I would take that a step further and even say comparing and contrasting other projects of a similar type is not a great practice. Yeah. I mean, we should be looking at everything on the merits of that individual site, that individual projects. That's just a I mean, that's a choice they made in terms of their presentation. But it's not a good go by. Thank you, Mr. Moe. Thank you, Mr. Roach. But now or no more discussion before adjournment. Any more discussion before adjournment? No. I've got a motion to adjourn. Do I have a second? U.S. Township Alying. U.S. Township никак.
