Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2024-09-25
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=240
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Alright, if we're ready to begin. It's 530. We should probably start on time to make sure we can get through any discussion. Time for the Board of Supervisors meeting tonight. For our guests on the water board and for the public, I'm going to keep reminding people until we're all comfortable with this. Overhead, you'll see new panels with green lights. So we now have sound systems throughout the room so that we can stream and record our work sessions. But we're still learning. It might pick up your conversations wherever you are in the room. So I'd be a little cautious. This is new since Mr. Lawrence, since you and your people were here last. So with that comment, I think we should start with introductions and then proceed right to your presentations. So shall we start at this side and go around the table? Judy McCann Slaughter, Stonewall District Supervisor. Robert Wells, Opecan Supervisor. Lane Dunn, Bedbush Supervisor. Heather Lockridge, Gainesboro Supervisor. John Joel Backcrete, Supervisor. Bob Lero, Shawnee Supervisor. Mike Ballhopper, County Administrator. Eric Lawrence, Executive Director, Frederick Water. Henry Slowinski, Frederick Water. Tom Simon, Frederick Water. Marty Dills, Frederick Water. Stan Crockett, Frederick Water. And Josh Ludwig, At-Large Supervisor. All right. I suppose we should jump right in. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. And I do want to note Gary texted me earlier today. He said he wasn't feeling well. So obviously he's not here. I told him I don't want to sit next to him. So he chose not to be here. I appreciate the opportunity. We do this annually. Whether we're meeting with the Board of Supervisors or we're meeting with the Planning Commission, we make an effort to do an annual work session, bring the Board, bring the county up to speed with what we're doing on various projects. And if there's any hot topics, let's go ahead and talk about those. So that's the format I've got tonight. We'll give you an overview on Frederick Water. We'll talk about our finances, our CIP, our rate structure, give you some project updates. We've got a lot of capital improvement projects under construction right now. And then we'll finish off with a response to the Lake Frederick Work Group's presentation to you all back in June. I think what I'm going to run through it. Sometimes I talk too much, and I'm hoping you nudge me along if I'm dragging out. But there's a lot of interesting stuff. I've got a lot of information here, so we're going to try to go as quickly as we can. Let's see if I've got my clicker going here. Is it the arrow? Yep. Okay. So what is Frederick Water? We're actually an authority. We're a political subdivision. Under State Code 15.2-5100, it's the Virginia Water and Waste Authorities Act. That act was created in 1950. In 1967, the Frederick County Board of Supervisors decided to move forward and create an authority under that act. So in 1967, the Frederick County Sanctuary Board of Supervisors decided to move forward and create an authority under that act. So inirsinely, the Frederick County Sanctuary Board of Supervisors decided to move forward and create an authority under that act. The name is Frederick Water. Our name is Frederick Water. This was created by Frederick County, adopted by the state. On our 50th anniversary five years ago, we rebranded as Frederick Water. The rebranding was simply because the sanitation in our name was misleading on a lot of fronts. Because as a political subdivision, we could provide sanitation services. We could run the landfill. That's not what you established us for, so we said let's go with the water emphasis. And that's what we've been dealing with. So we are always FCPA's spirit. It's a long story. We're always going to be the county's internal history. for every County Sanitation Authority, but we do business as Frederick water One one unique component of that agree arrangement when the water supervisors created us They also said there's two things that they that you all board supervisors control you appoint the board of directors to Frederick Water and you establish our service area So the county has adopted the sewer and water service area within your comprehensive plan and that dictates where we provide services So those are two components that come out of this political subdivision assignment I put the summary up there what the Virginia Code The Virginia water and wastewater authorities act it actually delineates the powers of the authority our board of directors size appointments oversight Which they assign that to you all the services provided as I noted we do water and sewer but under that authority We could do streetlights. We could do landfill. We aren't empowered to do that and I'm not asking for that but that's what the State law allows It also delineates our financing opportunities obligations in the rates charges collection process To recover whatever cost we incur so when we go build something we use the right structure that this chapter of the code gives us the powers to do What we are not okay, let me give it there we go what we are not is we are not a public service company We are a authority under the political subdivision component as I mentioned The VW AA we are not a public service company, which is governed by the state corporation commission So we are not we are not part of the Virginia Code title 56 public services And I point that out because that is in this community. We're familiar a lot of people are familiar with aqua, Virginia aqua water They run the the water and sewer system in Lake Holiday. They are a public service company. We are not a public service company We are political subdivision of the Commonwealth in Under that public service. You can see the SEC has the oversight or I'm sorry the SCC has the oversight that's that could that would conflict because in our case the Board of Supervisors has the oversight and Looking at the definitions for that chapter title 56. It's specifically exempt political subdivisions So there's all the connections there that clearly state. We are not a public service company Our our policies and our guidance is That growth pays for growth We have two primary sources of revenue that's your builders your developers and then the customers the ratepayers The builders and developers they fund they construct the infrastructure necessary for their projects They they do the extensions of water and sewer They do the upgrades as necessary so that their project can have adequate water and sewer services When they go to build those houses, they pay the availability fees to us So essentially they build the infrastructure dedicated to us for perpetual maintenance They provide an availability fee which funds the treatment side of things It funds the bonds and it makes sure that we have adequate funding to maintain the system perpetually We're now about a 55 year old Authority so we've got a lot of infrastructure out there from the I guess to the 70s really is what we started doing things That we still have to maintain developer built it no doubt, but we've been maintaining it for 50 years homeowners their component of our pay structure is They're the ratepayers they pay the monthly fees if it's a house is we do buy month lease every two months They pay the fees and their fees are based on use and consumption basically Whatever it costs us to produce a thousand gallons of water a thousand gallons of sewer. That's what the rate is for that the users The bottom paragraph is interesting because we are funded by developers and our customers. It's not Taxpayers per se it's ratepayers and I want to emphasize that because we have about we have 18 9 we're just under 19,000 connections that that is accounts. That's a combination of houses and businesses That's that's meters essentially and we serve about 50,000 people Well, we know in Frederick County we have close to 100,000 people. So clearly we're serving half the population I think statistically the county has about 40,000 houses so we're about we're covering about half the house as well our public service also and That's I wanted to emphasize that because we're not a county-wide service We're available in the certain water service area But that's by statistics. We're only about half the population half the housing units in Frederick County Availability fees I touched on They're paid by new connections when I say new come up customer. That's not someone who just bought a house The new customer is I'm getting a building permit. I'm going to connect my my new infrastructure to Frederick water system That's when you pay your availability fee and we collect those fees and that funds the operational expansions that that funds the treatment plants to maintain the treatment plants that funds the expansions of the treatment plants and Amazingly, there's a lot of upgrade just part of the maintaining of these facilities and we use the availability fees to fund those avenues We also use availability fees for any debt obligations Treatment plants are the easiest thing to look at because they tend to be expensive and they they tend to have debt behind them So I wanted to point that out because existing customers we don't want to hold existing customers Liable for future expansions we want to use the availability fees to fund that that big maintenance dollar and that debt and that feature expansion We do accumulate availability fees and that's part that's part of we've got perpetual maintenance of everything of all the water and sewer lines the Pump stations the water and sewer treatment plants. We have to maintain them. We have to operate them. We have to pay for them So we use availability fees and we accumulate them that become very apparent in the recession of 2020 2008 through 13 error Growth in this community. It didn't come to a standstill, but it felt like it did You only you had 50 houses a year for a couple of those years Which meant we didn't get a lot of availability fee payments during that time When we look at our financials, we were barely above water We were barely we barely had enough money in our reserves to pay our bonds and keep an operation So the lesson learned from that is we're gonna do everything we can to avoid debt and we're gonna maintain a larger reserve fund And I'll talk about that reserve fund a little bit because that's key Our experience was we could have gone bankrupt in 2010 2010 error 2011 error and we don't want to incur that again. We want to make sure we stay healthy. We keep our system thriving Now we're going to shift to financials I Guess these are the two guy calling key points to start because I think they're key the Authority structure that were in says that we don't have we don't know Frederick County anything We don't have debt to Frederick County, but more importantly the county is not responsible for Frederick waters debt the structure of a Virginia water and waste authorities act authority is We are a revenue stream. We use revenue bonds to pay for our pay for our responsibilities pay for our debt So customers availability fees and revenue bonds pay for our responsibilities We will never fight by law. We won't come to Frederick County and say we need help. It's our responsibility to thrive on our own So you're not referred to County is not responsible for the debt in our in our finances. I point out on the first one there was a We cleared up we had about and a Judy, you know the number probably 600 or 800 thousand dollar debt that we carried for 30 40 years That was that was Frederick water. I'm sorry Frederick County funding We first got started and about Four years ago We cleared that when we were building the base for the Stonewall Park baseball fields to satisfy some other obligations that that we had with a landowner The county at that point said well we'd like extra nice lights and we said okay we can do that and in exchange We abandoned we wrote off the debt. So at this point we have no debt owed to Frederick County I'm gonna touch the next Couple slides we're gonna touch on our current budget our FY 25 budget. We're gonna touch on our monthly treasurer's reports our CIP And I'm going to point out that all of our financial documents their public documents so we present them on a monthly basis to our board of directors, they're accessible online and We have annual audits So we operate akin to the Board of Supervisors and that it's public information and we make sure the information is out there I've been being make sure during our public meetings our board of directors see that the Details as to what's going on As we talk availability fees are based on our 10-year capital expenditure expenditure program So we look at our CIP we look at what we need we call it operating capital Yeah, and I just got we also call it just capital improvements But there's a lot of things that we know we have to do over a 20-year period But we look at a 10-year period make sure our availability fees can cover our capital needs cover our our bond obligation You'll see that as we go through the financials This is a page from our FY 25 budget this was adopted in April of this year. This is actually It looks like page 8 but it's of the 38 page budget Budget has all the details and involved in what we're gonna fund Explanations and details, but I wanted to pull this page because it's a good summary of our finances what I circled there is in FY 25 which were two months ago? I mean, it's been a couple of months since we've been in the financials program. We've been in the financials program for about three months into it now Three months into it now we have 51 million dollars in capital expenditures program. It's in our budget We're doing things to strengthen the water supply and treatment system We're doing things to advance the crooked rung wastewater treatment plant Eliminate the violations that we have down there and part of that elimination is retired plan Now we go to the next slide same same sheet, but I wanted to point out some details here our cash liquidity and debt service policies require It's a formula but it looks at our operating costs It looks at our debt and it says that we need to maintain the calculation right now is 30 to 35 million in our reserves Solely to make sure we can operate If there's a bad year bad economy, we still got to pay the bills What I circled in red is to avoid debt and interest and what we found from the 2011 recession error is We're doing everything we can to minimize debt. We have a lot of debt. We've inherited we have a lot of debt That's incurred of the past today We've had a lot of debt for a decade But we're trying to go forward to minimize building debt So we're planning on of this 51 million dollars in capital budget expenditures We're gonna pull 43 million from reserves and strategically. That's what our plan was But this equates and that's your bottom left-hand bullet there This equates that we need to have about 73 to 78 million dollars in reserves This year to make sure we're going to meet our operations capital in our budget And that's a significant number but that also just That also explains why we have the reserves that we have These are all papers or sheets this we present on a monthly basis or some monthly treasurer's report That's hard to see the number but it's about 80 million dollars is what our current cash is and our reserves Well as I just walked you through what our our cash liquidity in our cash reserve requirements are our debt for capital expenditures this year We need to have 73 to 78. We've got 79. So we're actually right on target for where we wanted to be about an 11.5 million, which is about 18 million dollars.し ы We also presented this is our cash flow on a monthly basis exist We present this to the the board for their approvals We need to have 70 to 87 million dollars in assurance Sheila conversation Maybe this year it's gonna be a little bit more on the cash flow This previous year when was this all about It's from the time change Oh, I got about 625 million dollars up here You're already playing over my phone For good location payment loss we got $6 cityaus and DirecTV 보� dispos unstable 505 hundred錢的資金用逧 joy 267 giant finances in smells ebook in a Basel Valley in booked south-west cities in the upper osmanis New York state We only spent $6 million. We've got $18 million remaining. And that explains why we continue to put money in reserves, because the construction programs weren't advancing as quickly as we anticipated, so we didn't have to pay the bills as quickly, and therefore that money did not get spent. It got put into reserve. And that explains why the reserve was growing this past year. But when you look at this, this is a quarterly snapshot we put out of our capital spending. You can see the $23 million, we've got $6 million that was spent. We've got unspent $17 million. I have my little cheat sheet down here on the left. Your deal water treatment plan upgrades, which we'll talk about in a little bit, and the Lake Frederick water treatment plan upgrades, they were both programmed for last fiscal year. They both have federal dollars grants applied to them. And we had been waiting for about three years to get approval. We had been assured by EPA that the money was going to be released in FY20. We programmed the monies to get things paid. The grants become reimbursable. And we didn't get authorization to move forward with the deal program until probably about January. And Lake Frederick didn't get authorization until spring. So what happened is while we programmed and expected to spend the money, that $22 million throughout last year, we really didn't get the go-ahead until the second half of the year. And then the reality is Lake Frederick didn't even break ground on their project until I think it was July 1st when it finally started. So that's why you have some delays there. No doubt that getting a hold of the money, the grants was a challenge, timely challenge, bureaucracy, but also we had to go through the process to advertise, get the contractors on board. And then there's an extremely, there's a delay in securing products. There's a delay in securing pipes and all the pump structures and all the electronics that we have in our facilities. At one point it was a six-month, then it was a two-year. It's closer to a one-year delay now. But things are, things are going to be different. So we're going to have to wait and see. So we're going to have to wait and see. Things are taking longer than anticipated, so it delays some of the expenditures. And if there's ever, if you have any questions as I'm going through it, certainly let me know and I'll try to address them. I do have one. Yes. So. Go back here. You keep enough in reserve to cover the entire year's operating and capital budget or not? We always keep enough in reserve to cover the debt liquidity. There's a formula. So that's that $30 to $35 million. That's debt. That's operations. We have to keep a percentage. And that's what that calculates out to $30 million. We don't program new capital projects if we don't have money to build them. And we're either going to pull from designated assets, which is our reserve, or we're going to say we're going to go after a bond. What we found is three, four years ago, we went out to the bond market and found a 1.15%, $35 million bond. So we went, we said, okay, that one's that was a good bond to go after. Now the bonds are closer to 5% and 6%. So the belief is that's what the reserves where you've got the reserves. So we're going to self-funded instead of going out and getting another bond. Simple numbers. If it's a $20 million, $20 million bond, $20 million project, got a 20 year bond on it. Five, 6%. You're going to spend $15 million on interest. And what we said is that that's a waste of money. Let's let's make sure we have money so we don't have to go out and pay twice as much for the same project. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. We learned that simply because 2011 when we thought we weren't going to be able to pay our bills, we don't want to get run into that situation again. 32nd question. Yes. If you went back for any reason, then who provides the water? Technically we can't go bankrupt because we're revenue driven. So we have to raise rents. And that's what our goal is to stay fiscally responsible so that we're not raising rates beyond what we need to cover our costs. And if we're being responsible, we can keep the rents. rates as low as possible. And we'll touch on the rates in a little bit because you'll see the rates are actually pretty low. But, you know, that's one reason it's not a county responsibility how we operate because you have no responsibility to pay our bills. We have to generate the revenue necessary to pay our bills. Thank you. On our capital improvement plan, we are a 10-year project list. The first year is realistic. We actually, we don't put something on the CIP unless we know we need it and unless we can justify that it should be funded. So the first year in that 10-year program actually gets put right into our budget. So it's part of the process. We adopt the CIP in January. We'll adopt the budget in April. So it builds. They build on each other. I call it the 11th year because it's only a 10-year program. But in year 11, I keep a list of projects that I know will have to show up on the radar. So in the 11th year, we've got projects that may need to be done. 10 years out, so it may show up next year. It may be something that needs to show up in the next 15 years, but I don't want to lose track of it. So we've got an 11th year program of projects. This year in December, we adopted our sanitary sewer master plan. It was a five-year update. And that master plan, it's a 20-year master plan. It has a 30-year segment in it, but I think that's a little too far out to really project. But in years 10 through 15, it's got $172 million in necessary improvements. It's the sanitary master plan. So that's not water. That's solely the sanitary side. We also have an identified need for a new wastewater treatment plant. It's been on the books. It's been talked about for 20 years. The sewer master plan says in the next 10 to 15 years, that needs to be built because of the growth rate. Fortunately or unfortunately, the growth rate is going faster than we anticipated. It seems to me that professional development in our major Biden dzieges might go faster than our senior vision in terms of걸 funding, but I think it's a bold move because our budget is olives out. That also has 2023 April year, so something I don't have to be really about. and realize we've got $100 million. We're going to constantly program it into our CIP, into our budget, and make sure it shows up in the reserves so we're ready. Well, I don't expect you to see that, but that is a snapshot of our CIP. It's got a number of projects. We have the funding by year, but I'm going to zoom into those two red areas because they're most important for today's conversation. The top one is your Slowinski TDS reduction and also solids handling. Those are both significant projects that we're going to undertake next year. Actually, it's in this coming year, start this year. It's going to strengthen our water program. It's making sure that we recognize today we're delivering water. Right now, I think we did 7 million gallons a day today. We did 8.5 million gallons a day in June, and in the winter, we typically would drop below 7. We expect those numbers will keep going up with growth, but you can see there's a swing. But most importantly, we recognize that as growth continues in this community, we need to continue to grow our water supply and our water delivery. So what we're doing is we're preparing a treatment program so we can be prepared for that 12 million gallon a day expectation in the next decade. We've got a 3 billion gallon storage and water supply program already in place. We need to make sure we can treat that water. We've got an eighth quarry that we'll see in 2035. We already have an agreement. It'll be 1.7 billion gallons. So that bumps our system up to 4.7 billion gallons of storage. That all comes together as a, you know, one of the challenges we have is the drought the last couple years certainly wasn't planned. And we're programming trying to prepare for it. It showed up before we had our infrastructure in place, but we do have a program to get infrastructure there. One of the compliments that I think I've seen is as we've strengthened our quarry system the last couple years, we actually have had Loudoun Water, City of Harrison, for example, City of Harrisonburg, Berkeley County, they've been coming down to visit us to tour our quarries to understand how we operate because they see there's merits to having that quarry system, having that reservoir system. Loudoun Water, much larger organization than we are, much larger population than we have in Frederick County, they just acquired in the last couple years a quarry. It's a billion, billion and a half gallon storage. We've got 3 billion gallons of storage. We've got 3 billion gallons of storage. We've got 3 billion gallons of storage already. And we've got another 1.7 showing up. So we're ahead of them in terms of having reservoirs and having these facilities. City of Winchester and their CIP that they adopted back in June, they've got $80 million for a reservoir, another $20 million to upgrade their treatment plant so they can utilize the reservoir. So while the drought has everybody thinking, trying to move forward with a solution, we're in the middle of developing our solution. I just wanted to make sure you were aware of that. Everyone wants a reservoir. What we found is the quarries are a lot cheaper than investing $80 million to trying to build a reservoir. The second circle, red circle, that's the Crooked Run Pump Station in Force, Maine, and that bullet also captures the Double Tollgate sewer plant. That program, and it's really, you have two elements, but we put them together on the charts, but that's to achieve compliance with our Virginia Pollution Discharge Elimination System. That's essentially the discharge permits that we have for the wastewater treatment plant. The Crooked Run plant has violations. The nutrients are too strong. We had to find a solution. We've come up with a solution, and that's retire the wastewater plant and pump everything to Park and Spill. Park and Spill plant is capable of treating everything properly. I can tell you that as we went through the evaluations trying to figure out what the right solution was, when we finally concluded to retire the Crooked Run plant, our plan was to retire the wastewater treatment plant. Our contacts, our partners with DEQ were ecstatic. They were pleased because they knew we had continuous violations since 2014 when development started up. They didn't see a solution to fix it there, so when we said, okay, we're going to walk from that plant and go to Park and Spill, they were pleased to see it, and they actually quickly told us how we can transfer the discharge credits we have to Park and Spill so we wouldn't lose ground on the discharge permit side of things. And we continue to work closely with DEQ to make sure that happens. When the EPA showed up, and I guess they showed up about two years ago, and just from a hierarchy, they took control of the violations that we had been working with on DEQ. That elevated the need to hurry up and advance the project that we've been talking about. So the new project, which is what the CIP captures, it's expanding our collection area. It's the ICSA, the inter-county service area. It's making sure that we can serve Lake Frederick today, Lake Frederick at its build out. We can serve the greater Triangle area of the sub-continent. We can serve the greater Triangle area of Frederick County's southern Frederick-Langis plan. And then we also have a partnership with Clark County, so this solution will help extend services into Clark County and the Double Tollgate area. Limited capacities for Clark County, but it's all they asked for, so it's all we provide. This project does convey all the wastewater from those areas now. It will, when it's operational in a year, year and a half, it'll all go to Park and Spill. It'll be the Park and Spill plant where it'll be able to treat everything. and it's it's less expensive that's it that's a key component the crooked run plants not only does it have violations it's a very inefficient operation so I'll touch on some of those numbers later in the slides our goal is to make sure we're achieving compliance and that's what we're working on here are you going to drill down on those two areas later what we're gonna we're gonna drill into them so when we get to them that would be a great time to ask questions specific about yeah and then last slide on the CIP you really can't see it but the CIP is a hundred and twenty million dollars and it doesn't cover the sewer master plan 175 million that we need to add to it and that's that'll get us for the next 15 years if you want to look at 30 years we've got two hundred eighty million dollars in project needs for the sewer side of things that's why you're ten years that's the ten year yes and then ten years what's up number red 119 million okay thanks there's the summary I beat myself to the slide but you got 119 million dollars in the 10 year CIP we've got another 172 million dollars ready to follow it and when you look at our 20 30 year plan there's another hundred and fifty million dollars in necessary improvements to keep up and I touched that second bullet up or the second I guess the bottom of the slide there in the yellow I touched on that what we have found is while going out and bonding things makes money available to us it does come with consequence and that's what we're trying to minimize our exposure to bonds and the interest obligations doubles you know a hundred a hundred and twenty million dollars CIP would be double if we bonded the whole project if you look at 240 we don't want to walk into that we have to pay the bills is what it comes down to the most efficient way is to avoid the bonding if we can and that's our financial program I'm going to go back to the last slide and then we'll talk about the next slide. jumping into rate structures as I noted earlier we are the Virginia Water and Waste Authorities Act is that 15.2-51 chapter 51 it has an entire article that deals with financing bonds obligations rates charges enforcement of charges liens investments finance reporting so we have a lot of guidance within that chapter and that's what our finance department and our finance committee make sure we're always in conformance two things that I wanted to draw out of that section is we have to use what we use revenue bonds so that says that's why Frederick County is not responsible for what we do financially because we're empowered to use revenue bonds to pay for our water and sewer improvements what that comes down to is if I can't pay the bill I can always get a bond and use my revenues from customers to pay the bond to pay the bill that's that that will have interest to tie to it so that's not the most attractive route but that's how the organization has an authority set up. Any other questions? And that little bullet there, we're not a countywide service. I think that's important to recognize. The only people that can use our service have to be in your designated sewer and water service area and they have to be connected to our system. If you're not in the sewer and water service area, you may be a county resident, county taxpayer, but you have no obligations to pay any Frederick Water bills, any cost. If you're in the sewer and water service area but you're not connected to our services, you have no obligations to pay for our services. So we're not a countywide service. We're a designated utility for those folks that have, whether they've elected to use our service or they bought property that uses our service, they're the ones that pay the bills. The financing section tells us how to establish the rates, fees, charges, and the key thing is it's to make sure we can cover our costs, our debt, and create the reserves for perpetual system maintenance. I always go back to the recession timeframe. No new connections, no new available, no limited connections, limited availability fees. We still had to operate and we, and it was a tough time for everybody. So we didn't want to raise our rates to generate the revenues. So if that recession stretched out for a couple more years, we wouldn't have had the monies to pay off our debt. We don't want to incur that again. I've got a compliment and Cheryl Whittle is our finance director. She's here, but it's what she did to recognize when she joined us, looked at the history and said, we can't do that. We can't do that again. And she put together a financial program going forward that our finance committee actually supports and our board adopted. And that's how we got into a good financial position we're in today. The two main cost, the two main fee structures that you see availability fee when you, when you connect to our service and your monthly service fee availability fee, we've touched on it, but that's really to fund your capital, your CIP, your treatment, your system improvements. It's a one-time cost. So if you're, if you're a service provider, you're going to have to pay for the cost. So if you're just, if your house, for example, is already connected to us, you don't pay another availability fee. You pay, you pay that fee once to us on under the monthly services, everybody gets a bill, uh, depending on how much you use commercial side, pay monthly residential side, pay bi-monthly. And those bills are based on two factors, a monthly base fee, which is a fixed fee, which says how much it costs to deliver water and treat wastewater at your house. And it gives you a thousand gallons a month. It's a fixed fee. So if you use more than a thousand gallons a month in your services, then that's, that's the monthly consumption fee. And that is based on every thousand gallons of water you purchase, you pay a consumption fee for that above that, that free, if you will, that thousand gallons that came with your base fee. So what that says is if you, if someone chooses to be responsible every two months, they have to buy a minimum of 2000 gallons. That's just what it costs. But if, but you don't have to use more than 2000 gallons if you choose not to, not to. So that's, that's what that says. And if you're not, if you're not a service provider, you're not a service provider, you're not a service provider. You're not a service provider. You're not a service provider. You're not a service provider. And that's how, that's how you, everybody uses it at their house, their business, whatever choices. Blaine, I see your hand. So on the availability fee, are you building a fee into there to try to meet your capital obligations for the next 10, 10 years? Is that the, because you made the comment that in 2008, 9, the availability fee was going low. You still had obligations. So is that fee built upon? Yeah. Yeah. The availability fee looks at the CIP and we have to, because we're seeing all these new sewer projects that are showing up, we have to revisit our availability fee to make sure we've got adequate revenues coming in to meet that next, really the next 10, 20 year capital expenditure. So we, we plan on revisiting the availability fee, if not this year, next year. We haven't, it's been the same for almost 10, 15 years. So it's the same, ultimately it's about $17,000 per house. It's that's, that's been the ballpark for quite some time since 2008 or nine. So basically if we're continuing to grow at a linear rate, not an exponential rate, at that linear rate, you know, this is a, this is a, this is a, this is a, this is a, this is a fee that you anticipate. It's not future point in time. If there's an extra rate that would have to change or if the rate levels off, that would then drop. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. Historically, Frederick County has grown 3% a year and it's changed over the past five years. But if you look at the past three, four decades, we were growing at 2.9, 3% a year. And a lot of our structure at Frederick Water was anticipating that growth rate. Sewer, sewer treatment, water treatment. We were, we were looking at that growth rate. As things pick up, we recognize you're going to have a lot more demands than we anticipated. So that's why we have a lot more expenditures showing up. Thank you. Preparing for that. This is the monthly service fee. I'm going to, I'm going to break it down. So as I noted, you have a base fee, which is fixed and you have a consumption fee. And that consumption fee is based on how much water you use at your house. In May of 22, we adopted a multi-year consumption rate increase. It was an 8% consumption rate increase. And I'm emphasizing because you have two different components, you have a base fee and you have a consumption rate. So it was an 8% consumption rate increase, not the base, not the base, but the consumption. What that means on July 1st of this year, your water, your, your, your water consumption rate, if you purchased more than was included in your base fee, it went from $5 and 44 cents to $5 and 88 cents. Okay. That's an 8% increase. The sewer side went from $6 and 51 to 703. That's your, that's your 8% increase. I think it's important to recognize that. So we were, we were, we, we state it's an 8% consumption increase, but you have a base consumpt, you have a base rate, you have a consumption rate and together that's your monthly fee. Well, if you, if you add it all up, it's only a 2% annual increase in that monthly fee. So it's, it's important because I keep hearing numbers. 8%, 8%, 8%. It's actually, when you do the true calculations, it's 2%. We advertised at 8% consumption rate because that's what it is. But if you look at the full base plus consumption, you realize what the true number is. Key component here is, so it's a 2% annual increase and it didn't even keep up with inflationary costs. When we adopted that, we anticipated inflation. We anticipated cost. Then we started seeing chemicals go up 40%. Then we started seeing chemicals go up 40%. Then we started seeing chemicals go up 40%. Then we started seeing chemicals go up 40%. Then we started seeing chemicals go up 40%. Then we started seeing chemicals go up 40%. Then we started seeing chemicals go up 40% and then we couldn't get hold of things. So that 2%, while we thought it was appropriate when we adopted it in 2022, it hasn't kept up with the true cost of increased in cost and treatment and delivery. This chart on the right is a chart we refer to a lot. It's actually, I pulled it off our webpage. It's a comparison and it's July 1st of the summer. So it's an accurate, it's using the, it's using the 8% increase, which gave us the new numbers. And we compared ourselves to our neighbors, Frederick water city, Winchester, front Royal out of town, Berryville, Clark County. What's what I want to point out here is if you look at the numbers, this is a monthly cost. So tip it. So your typical Frederick County resident, Frederick water resident pays every two months. So it's twice that $188 every two months. If you're using the typical 5% gallons or 5,000 gallons, but breaking it down monthly simply so we can do apples to apples comparison with our neighbors. Okay. So that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the good tip is buy a classic ≫ demand volume because everybody's buying prices like we have in this, this, this, this, this, shape one to it. Okay. This one is from Fred. Okay. is key and that's why we're able to keep our rates as low as they are. The shift speed here, go to the water update. We've heard questions, we've got plants, we've got a plant in Stephen City which is our deal water treatment plant. We've got a plant in the northern part of the county, the Anderson water treatment plant and we have built the Slowinski water treatment plant because we have to retire the Anderson. But what's most important is through the improvements we also interconnected our system. So our entire water system is interconnected. You could be living in Clearbrook on our system and you could be getting water from the city or from the town of Stephen City out of our deal water treatment plant and conversely you could be in Stephen City and you might be drinking water from the northern plant. The benefit there is we look at our quarry system and whichever quarry has the abundance of water, that's the water we're going to pull from and we're going to push it to wherever the customers are. Our quarries, we have seven quarries today, three billion gallons of storage. By 23 we'll have 4.7 billion gallons of storage. And the goal is we want to make sure we have an abundance of quarries. And I'm going to call them reservoirs because that's what they are. We want to have an overabundance of quarry reservoirs so that they stay full all the time. When we get to the point where we have more water in our quarries than we need, then we can shift depending on where the demands are, depending on where the water is and we can make sure that we're managing the quarries so that we don't draw them back. Okay. And so, we're going to take that down. This past year has been a tough one because we aren't fully operational. Our seventh quarry, the East Pit, it has a billion gallons of water in it but we're not ready to treat it. So, it was a tough year. But hopefully two years from now, and I'll talk about that project in a little bit, but two years from now, we'll be using the full seven quarries, the three billion gallons. And because the East Pit, it's a 1.7 billion gallon storage reservoir, we're going to leave it up leave it alone for the next couple years it'll continue to just naturally fill up so it'll be a good good quarry to pull from as necessary give you perspective just looking at that three billion gallons of storage if we delivered seven million gallons yesterday that's over a year's supply in our current structure and our current quarries and that's because the East Pit which we're not using but if you count it towards three billion gallons we have a lot of water we just aren't ready to deliver to our customers yet we're still working on the treatment component and this is my plug I do this all the time even the last couple days it's dreary it's raining we are still in a groundwater drought the quarry levels and that's that's that is the North quarry that picture is from two days ago our quarries are in good shape but the problem is the groundwater is not recharging or get our grass is turning green our leaves the flowers everything loves this water but it's it's superficial it's hitting the surface it's not getting in the ground this is from yesterday this is this is the monitoring well the DEQ USGS uses we use it also what I'm showing here is this is yesterday in this is last December when we were we were the drought emergency component our groundwater levels in this region are very low but this is an example of how we can do this we're going to do a little bit of a tour of the site and what we're going to do is we're going to get a picture from the site the site will show you this map and we're going to show you this channel right here this is the site that we were in and we're going to go down to the site and we're going to look at the history and this is a three-year history right yeah it's a three-year history if you've stretched the history out and this website is outstanding if you go if anybody wants But that's at 38 feet below the surface on this particular well. So that is the imaginary line. We want to be above that. And that says groundwater is in good shape. We've been below it since, I think it says June, May or June of last year. So while we had a good snow last winter, it recharged our quarry system. It did not recharge the groundwater like we had hoped. So we promote, you know, we take responsibility to make sure the community is aware of the drought condition. While I've got adequate water supply in our quarries and our customers have adequate water supply, 50% of our community is not a Frederick Water customer. 50% of our community is probably on a private well. They need to be aware that the groundwater is not where it should be. That's my little public service plug that I don't think anybody's really paying attention to it, but it's important if you're on a private well. Your pond may look good. Your grass looks great. But 150 feet below ground, there's not a lot of water. There's not a lot of water sitting there. It's not recharging yet. Okay, let's shift to project updates. The Sawinski Water Trudy Plant. That is a project that we have been working on, Sawinski plant, for probably eight years. During COVID, we finally got to the point, we got it designed, we got it out to bid, and the plant is now completed. It will be served. It's an 8 million gallon a day filter. It's all computer. You all have seen it. Hopefully you've seen it at some point. It's a Paul membrane system. It's high tech. It's all driven by computers. It's designed, the finished water pumps are designed to push 12 MGD because we wanted to make sure in the future we didn't have to upgrade our finished water delivery system. The treatment plant is complete, and we probably have another month left to finish this pipeline. What we're doing is we're piping all of the water from Pit 2, which is north of Roostown Road, which currently serves our Anderson Water Treatment Plant. We control that water. We're piping it so it comes down to the new plant here. Hopefully within the month, this pipeline will be complete, and this plant will be placed into operation. Right now, we operate it on a weekly basis just to keep it part of training, but it's also to keep it exercised. Unfortunately, we produce 4 million gallons a day, and we can't deliver it to our customers because it's coming out of the East Pit, and it's a little harder than we want to deliver to our customers. We use the plant, and we actually discharge it to hot run. We're exercising. Our operators are ready to roll. We're not able to use the plant. Hopefully at the end of October, it'll be placed in operation. So the second component of this project is we call it the advanced water treatment. What we found is the East Pit, that's the 1.7 billion gallon reservoir, which has a billion gallons of water in it right now, as it naturally recharged the last two, three years, it had a higher TDS, a higher hardness, than we've seen anywhere in this community. So we're going through a process right now to figure out what's the proper way to treat that. Everything else in the water is perfect. It's just, it is hard water. So we're doing a study right now. We're going to put out a design build RFP in October, bring in a consultant design build team, and let them tell us what the right answer is. And we believe there's got to be an annex or another component of this plant built solely to treat that water in that pit. I'm trying to think. It's not there. Yeah. So the goal from a long range water supply program, the East Pit has got so much water in it, we view East Pit as our water source during peak times and then during a drought. So on a regular basis, we want that pit to stay full of a billion gallons of water. But if we have a high demand day or a high demand summer, we can pull water out of it, and it'll let the other reservoirs rest and we'll take from this source. So we've got a pretty complex system to make sure we have enough water. And building this advanced treatment is going to be key to turning on the East Pit. Can you clarify? You said that you can't use the water yet, although you're pumping maybe by October. But then you said you've got to treat it, which will take a couple more years. We have two water sources. So what we are building, we're building, we call it the raw water line from Pit 2. Pit 2 is a pit system that we've used for 25 years. It's good water. When we retire the Anderson Water Treatment Plant, the Slowinski Water Treatment Plant will use that water. So that's the water we're going to use to turn Slowinski on, hopefully by the end of October. The Deal Water Plant. When I talked about this past year, we had $22 million in capital programs, and the Deal Water Plant didn't get started until late. The Lake Frederick Well didn't get started until late. That's the Deal Water Plant. That's our treatment plant in the town of Stephen City. It has a lot of water. It draws from three quarries, two wells. But what we found is it's an old plant. It's about a 30-year-old plant. We found that there's things that we can do to make it more efficient. So right now, all the water sources dump into one quarry. We pump from the quarry to the plant. What happens through that process is some of that water that we've pumped goes back into the ground because the quarries are pervious. But also, as the water in the quarry level goes up and down, it becomes very inefficient for the plant pumps to push it up to the plant. So this project is actually building what's called a break tank. So all the water sources will pump from their quarries, from their wells, to a single tank, and that tank will pump it into the plant and improve efficiencies. That plant is under construction. That picture is actually from two days ago, so you can get a sense. They're putting all the footers in. They've got to build a tank. They have to build a pump station. So it's coming along. The goal there is next summer. That should be operational. The Lake Frederick treatment plant, that went under contract and just started construction. The contractor got the go-ahead. They're going to be in the water supply in July. It's a half million gallon a day facility. It's actually being built right next to the Crooked Run site. There's a well tucked in this woods that we found in 2015. So we've known about it for seven, eight years. And that'll be the water source. And this new plant, while it'll certainly serve Lake Frederick, it's going to be part of our whole system. So just as I said, northern plant can push to the south. Southern plants can push to the north. It all mixes in the system. It's going to be part of the overall water supply for our system. Target completion there is about a year from now. Now we'll shift to the Crooked Run plant. This is probably the biggest non-treatment plant that we've built. It's a $20 million initiative. And it was driven by our violations at Crooked Run. Our EPA and DEQ discharge violations for ammonia, nitrogen, chlorides. Looking at various options, opportunities to address those violations. They've had numerous engineers look at it. And everybody kept coming back. You can build upgrades to the plant, but you can't address the chlorides. So the conclusion was don't build an upgrade if you can't address chlorides. And I'll show you in a little bit, because the upgrades were going to cost $10 million two years ago. So it's probably, I would guess, it's $12 million the way the inflation's been. So what we came up with is, is a solution where we can retire that plant, pump it to Parkins Mill. The new system, it'll be a pump station. It'll pick up all of Lake Frederick build out. It'll use Parkins Mill, which is, there's your cost comparison I talked about earlier. Treatment at Parkins Mill is almost half the price. Parkins Mill is a much more efficient operation in terms of wastewater treatment. And this new solution to the Crooked Run pump station will also pick up, I call it the triangle, the land use plan calls it the triangle in Clark County. So it's economic development areas both in Frederick County, Clark County, but more importantly, it's opportunities for other folks to fund the improvement. So it's not being, it's not just one group that contributes. And the target completion is, it's under construction now. Hopefully by November of next year, it's fully complete. Talk about the finances on this particular project. We, we have, we know fixed costs right now. We know, we know what our designs are. We know what the easement acquisitions have been. have been we know what the construction contract is and it comes it's coming into about 20 million dollars we know through contracts we have with clark county clark's going to contribute 25 percent of the share of the project that they use so it's not all the way from lake frederick all the way north it's where they tap into it but it's about a four million dollar contribution just shy of it is probably the realities we have applied for grants so we we have we have an expectation we're going to get 3.8 million dollars in grants until as i say until it shows up i can't i don't want to count it but we've made application it's a reimbursable and it can show up in five years and we can still apply it to this project it's not one of those grants that you can't spend the money this one they tell us to go spend the money and then they'll give us reimbursement once it gets through the state process uh we anticipate we're going to get another 3.5 million dollars from icsa availability fees as lake frederick builds out what we don't know and this is going to be driven by what ultimately happens with property owners and all in board of supervisor decisions but last year you had a comprehensive plan amendment process earlier this year you had madison and sergeant cppas they're both within the icsa so if they develop we'll get additional availability fees icsa available availability fees from them i know the madison project has actually started circulating a rezoning so i have i was able to see that and it'll generate three to four million dollars in availability fees for this project if it if it gets gets through the approval process we also have given credit for what we call the escrow lake frederick funds um we received 1.6 million dollars through uh sewer availability fees over the but since sheryl has the number is that since 2013 i think it was so we've given credit for that and if you do the quick math that says we've got about an eight million dollar unknown and that's what we created the twenty dollar a month icsa fee that was to help contribute towards that now what we've what we have said from day one is as we know the true cost we're going to constantly revisit and figure out if that if that number is appropriate uh we've we said initially we said let's study it every five years but the reality is because we have all these other options coming in we don't need to wait five years i think we can know we'll know what this winter as we as we start advancing construction we start seeing what other development might be showing up that a contribute and i would our board will revisit it probably every january just to see where we are financially see where did we find any more grants did we find any more development is clark county ready to roll give us more money yeah we'll figure it out but that's where we are with that that that when we put the study together we had to demonstrate that we could we had revenue sources to pay for this 20 million project and what we're finding today is we have a lot of sources we have a lot of opportunities but we still have a lot of resources to pay for this twenty million dollar project and what we're finding today is we have a lot of sources we have a lot of opportunities but we still have a little shortfall there now interestingly enough that's an eight million dollar shortfall i'm going to talk about that in a little bit but the what we were hearing to upgrade the crooked run plant was 10 million dollars two years ago so it's probably higher and that didn't even address the chloride so we still think this is a smarter economic decision going this route we just have to continue to work to find grant opportunities and other partners to fund it now if i want to transition into i've got to pick up my pace here but i want to transition into the lake frederick uh presentation uh we frederick water did not participate in this but we received the uh the powerpoint in mid-july i think it was um so we have we have had a chance to look through it and uh since this is the first time we've gotten together with you this is really the first time we've had to talk to you about it um so i've captured some of the slides here and that is actually the that's the presentation that you all saw on the bottom right i'll just go through some of the slides um as i noted uh frederick water adopted the icf-2 water management strategy and the i-c-s-a strategy because we had to implement something to satisfy the violations of crooked run we felt like the overall strategy created opportunities for additional property owners to benefit and contribute toward the ultimate solution and fund thing that's most important the icsa expanded it so it wasn't just a lake frederick project it included a much larger area 3 400 acres as we'll touch on so it made sure that other people could benefit but finally around the border i Dahmer plus the skalow بتallous 3000 m² radius which can actually reflect the current impact on the latrine treatment of that private estate property they've even adopted a structure named land some and in a kind of regular someone who would have a shot at you could have some the good front tunnel 194 malaga black cloud green nuclear championships they live through lakes which they carried outゆ'suu in 12cala happy mile was one we provide two which is the developer since 2013 of Lake Frederick. They have a lot of misinformation in there, which we'll touch on. They've cited Virginia Code citations. As I started, we are not a public utility company. We are an authority. So all the Virginia Code citations they presented don't even apply to us. When you look at the financial understandings, we've talked about our budget, our revenues to date, and our projected contributions. What they presented to you doesn't jive with what the realities are as we operate our system. As I noted, Frederick Water is a political subdivision charted under the Virginia Water and Waste Authorities Act. We are not under Title 56. We are not under the public utility section. So this doesn't even apply to us. We have our own rate structure system that we comply with. So they're citing stuff here that doesn't apply to Frederick Water. They talk about other laws, but they don't provide any substance. They just said, well, if you have an intent, or even if you don't have an intent, you can be guilty. Well, we have looked at everything, because our intent was never to violate any laws, and we've looked at everything we've done. There's no clear indication that we would be in violation of any of this, and it's all misleading. The ICSA is 3,400 acres service area. Lake Frederick is less than 1,000 acres, so it's 25%. Lake Frederick is 25% of our service area. We created our rate structure, and we have a very strict law that we have to follow. We have to follow the Virginia Water and Waste Authorities Act, which is what we, that's the law that guides us. And there's a direct correlation between the services we furnish, the benefits derived, the facilities utilized, the rates and fees. So we've done everything, looking at all of our customers in the ICSA, looking what their needs are, and making sure that they're covering the cost based on what they consume. When you look down here, they talk about the brine. This is, because I don't have enough time to go through all 35 minutes of the slide, this is the brine discharge. Frederick Water is obligated by contracts we have with Frederick Winchester Service Authority not to accept anything in our plants that the plant can't treat. Now there's a complexity there. The Frederick Winchester Service Authority owns the wastewater treatment plant. They own Crooked Run. We operate it by contract. And our contract with Frederick Winchester Service Authority, and Frederick Winchester Service Authority's own law says, nothing goes into our sewer system, we don't have to do anything. So we're not going to have to do anything. We're going to have to do everything. We're not going to have to do anything. It's not a problem. We're going to have to do everything. It's a problem that they can't treat because it creates a violation of their permit. So we simply said, hey, we have it under our agreements with Frederick Winchester Service Authority. It's clear with our VPDES what our responsibilities are. We have it written in our guidance, but what we didn't have is surfacing it. So we brought it forward. We put it in another document to say, hey guys, we cannot accept brine or anything that's going to create a violation. It's not a questionable policy change. It's an existing agreement. that we have and we just surfaced it made sure everybody was aware of it and a key thing is this left paragraph a sewer system is not required to accept anything anybody wants to give to you we design treatment plants we work with FWSA we work with the developer whoever's going to fund the treatment plant and we design it based on anticipated flows but if something if something shows up that can't be treated then it cannot be introduced to that sewer system because the plant was not designed to accommodate and that's what we found with chlorides the high chlorides this plant was not designed to treat we have violations stop giving us the chlorides and we can address the violations that's that's what the attempt was here we have spoken with representatives of water softening companies and they understand what we're doing here they understand that when they're in grow air is the county they discharge to the yard they just charged to other avenues they said it's just easier in Lake Frederick it's easier when this public sewer to discharge the public sewer to other avenues they said it's just easier in Lake Frederick it's public sewer. I said, well, you're creating a violation. And they said, don't go after us. I said, no, no, I'm just, I'm informing you. We've got a problem here. Let's work together and find a solution. And we had an excellent discussion with them. It's not going to solve the violations we have with Crooked Run. We're going to solve that through the pump around solution. But I think people need to be aware. You can't just put anything to the sewer system because if the treatment plant can't perform and treat, then it creates a violation and you go back to the source and it says, don't introduce it to us. This was an interesting slide because it talks about the financial impact on the developer. Well, I get a kick out of it that the homeowners and the work group is presenting a slide that says we created a financial impact on the developer. The developer received $7.5 million in sewer availability fee payments. Frederick Water got $1.6 million. So we didn't get $7.5. We didn't get the sewer availability fees from the residential development. We didn't get the sewer availability fees from the residential development. We didn't get the sewer availability fees from the residential development. We didn't get the sewer availability fees from the residential development. We didn't get the sewer availability fees from the residents in Lake Frederick. The first phase of Crooked Run wastewater included a wastewater treatment plant. It was a $4 million investment done by a previous developer. So the current developer, he didn't have to fund that. Somebody else funded it. So what happened with the money? That $7.5 million, it didn't come back to build wastewater treatment. It didn't come to Frederick Water. That sewer availability, $7.5 million sewer availability fee went into the Lake Frederick amenities. It went to the developer so he could continue to build a beautiful project. The amenity packages, the aesthetics. It's a beautiful site. But the developer kept the $7.5 million, didn't put it into our sewer treatment. He put it into his infrastructure to make sure there was a beautiful project down there. We think it's a beautiful project. I don't question that. But I think it's funny that they're saying we took money from the developer when in fact he took money from Frederick Water. Now the interesting thing, the best part is earlier this year, the developer, Frederick Water, we came to closure with our seven-year litigation. We agreed that the ICSA was the right solution. We agreed and we withdrew. We canceled. We became friends. We got rid of the litigation. And the developer says, I support, they support the ICA concept. They went and talked to their home buyers or their builders, I guess is the best way to put it, and said, this ICSA is going to go and there's going to be a, it's about a $3,800 additional ICSA availability fee. And Shay Holmes and Trilogy and Ryan or whoever buys the lots is going to have to pay it. And the developer came back and said, everybody's on board. Let's go for it. We said, okay. And most important is the court system, through the process, the court system said, the judge ordered that Frederick Water could create any rates we justified. So we didn't take revenue from a developer. We manage our finances and the court system agreed that was happening correctly. At the end of the day, we have a good relationship with the developer. We've got through our differences on the water and sewer side of things. We found the ICSA as a solution for both of our needs and we got rid of litigation. When you jump over to the operational cost, this is another slide that, oh, this is, their conclusion of the slide is there's $52,000 profit that comes to the highest rate. We saw this. We're working with the work group in June and we said, guys, you're missing all the pump stations. We have to pump the sewage from all houses to the treatment plant. We have 11 pump little short sighted. It's short sighted. We don't have enough money, so it's being subsidized. So the interesting thing is in this bullet, okay, if we didn't get $7.5 million for our sanitary sewer fees, and the developer kept it and invested it back in the community, and we're not getting enough money to pay for the operations of our treatment plant and sewer collection services, that says the system, the Frederick Water overall system, the other 16,000 customers we have are subsidizing the 1,500 customers that we have in Lake Frederick. Is that appropriate? And that was some of the consideration when the ICSA structure came together. Let's make sure that the rest of our system isn't subsidizing this project. We haven't received that $7.5 million in sewer availability revenue, so that $20 a month was to help offset some of that. When the slides looked at our revenue, and we talked about this number, that's one of the reasons in my earlier presentation that I was talking about, is that we're not getting enough money to pay for the sewer. So, I'm going to turn it over to the board. I'm going to turn it over to the board. Thank you. So, the idea is that the first part of the presentation, I used April because that's what this slide talked about. As I mentioned, they're saying we have too much money in reserves. No, they didn't look at the whole budget. We provided everything to them. They didn't connect the dots. They didn't recognize that we have $51 million in capital expense. We have $30 million to $35 million in debt obligations, cash liquidity. We're actually right on target. We're a little shy of where we should be, but we don't have an excess amount of reserves. We have the right amount of money. We have the right amount of money to pay for the investments that we're making and be programmed. And we just have to remind everybody, we have that $120 million CIP. We have another $120 million in necessary improvements. There's the big number. Over 30 years, the sewer system needs $281 million. We have a lot of improvements. We don't have an excess of revenue. We're planning to make sure that we don't have to raise rates significantly to make sure we can keep up our system. Now, the Lake Frederick. The ICSA working group. We believe they continue to present information that's false. It's unsubstantiated. They're citing the wrong state codes. They're not citing proper budget numbers from us. In other slides, they've accused us of reimbursing Clark County for their contributions. They're not understanding, or at least they're not sharing the big picture. We've done everything to look out for our customers. We've done everything to look out for our financial responsibilities and make sure we comply with all the laws. The Virginia code applicable to us and certainly anything on the federal level. The slide here says everybody should be treated the same. Okay. So if the Lake Frederick community hasn't contributed to our sewer availability fee, should they contribute? Should we look at the rest of our customers to subsidize those improvements? The Frederick Water Board said no. We should. The only thing we can do is to provide a small contribution to help with the shortfall and the sewer availability fee that we didn't receive. Now, I recognize I'm running out of time here. So actually, I did well with my time. But I know you've got another meeting. So this is the last slide. I have them on presentation. We know there was 35 slides the Lake Frederick ICSA work group presented to you. So we actually went through all of those slides and have made comments to it because I knew I couldn't deliver it today to you in the limited time. So Jamie, she's got books she's going to hand out to the supervisors. So you can, on your own, you've got the answers to all 35 slides that were presented. We firmly believe we've not violated anything. We firmly believe we were solid in our financial plannings to make sure that our system thrives going forward, we're meeting requirements, and that we were treating everybody fairly. I think the $20 a month, I have no reason to believe it's going to go up. As I showed on that one slide. There's an $8 million unknown. But I think we're going to reduce that if there's new development that shows up. We have so many other opportunities to find grants and money. We know there's $8 million unknown and that $20 a month is going to contribute towards that. But our vision is to find those other revenue streams and eventually get rid of the $20. One of the slides you have is the presentation that was presented to you in June said we would be collecting $25 million from Lake Frederick. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. We're looking for an $8 million shortfall. We're not looking for $25 million. They were looking, they were using numbers that we said that was simply a projection if we couldn't find other revenue streams. We are finding other revenue streams. With that said, I'd be happy to answer any questions. I looked at my Frederick Water Board. If there's anything that I didn't touch on, I certainly welcome your input. We want to make sure that the supervisors understand what we're doing. Our target isn't to target anybody. Ours is to make sure we have an efficient operation. We're not going to target anybody. We're going to have a sufficient operation and we're treating all of our customers fairly. So, thank you for the presentation. It was a lot of information but I think you were concise and got all your thoughts across. However, we've used about an hour and 10 minutes of the hour and 15 or 20 that we had available and I was, we called it a work session but I'm not faulting you. It probably is on us. We should have had a time limit and an estimate so we would have plenty of time to go back and forth. I have a whole series of questions. I could take up all the remaining time. I don't want to for this board. So I think we should each maybe have two minutes of questions or comments, because we've got to get done by at least 10 to the hour. And then we'll have to take up our thoughts and questions and concerns more in the future. So I'll go first to make everybody else stick to their time. I'll jump in. Time me, though. Make sure I stay in two minutes. I have a series of questions on the larger system and the Slowinski plant. I'll skip all of those for now. And about Crooked Run and its design and cost. I'm going to skip those for a second and see if I have any of my two minutes left. The problem is I see it from the constituents' point of view. We have constituents in Lake Frederick. And they cannot discharge chlorides into the sewer system because the plant was not designed to handle it. Nobody else in the county. And I'm not saying that the county faces that problem. I have a water softener. And I don't face that constraint. So that's why they feel differently, through no fault of their own. They weren't involved with the design or operation of the plant. So the question I would have, and you don't have time to answer it now and give other people a fair, but I just want to tell you this question's coming. Why wasn't the original plant design an acceptance? Why didn't they address the chloride treatment? Why didn't they address the fluoride treatment? And I'm not saying this is a new problem. I think that the price of a great plant is going to be a burden down the road. Another question is the litigation that was settled this last winter. It has, as I understand it, the federal government who regulates this as a party. It had the developer as a party. And it had Frederick Water as a party, if I understand it correctly. But the homeowners and their associations was made to the satisfaction of all the parties, but was not at all voted on or submitted to the homeowners. And again, I don't have time with two minutes to go back to my Crooked Run specific questions. I'll just ask one more, and that is this presentation, I appreciate it, I'll go through your responses. Has the Lake Frederick community received this before today? We just produced it today. So ideally, they would want to be able to have a dialogue with you back and forth so that we don't have to try and adjudicate misunderstandings. It's a difficult challenge to analyze a whole new system as complex as yours and understand what code you fit under and your history. They've done a lot of work. I'm sure they will be getting back to us on, I'm sure there'll be a back and forth. And that's my two minutes. If you time me and I ran over, I apologize. Thank you. I apologize. Are there any board members who would like to take a minute or two? Yes, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Leo? Just one quick question for you, maybe two. What were the other courses of action considered other than the development of the ICSA? What was rejected? Plant upgrades. The vision was to upgrade plants to address things, and it wasn't until the end of the process, we actually designed a plant upgrade, that's why I know it was a $10 million plant. And it wasn't until the end of the process when DEQ came in and said, we're going to do a plant upgrade. And DEQ said, oh, when you do the plant upgrade, they're implementing a chloride restriction. When we looked at our original permits that came with when we got the plant approved in 2005, it had tiers. And the permit said that you had a chloride restriction for tier one, but tier two and tier three, which is when you do the upgrades to the plant, the chloride restriction went away. And it wasn't until DEQ said, oh, well, that's an error. And we learned that that ended. And we're going to do a plant upgrade. And that error created a big problem that says we were going to have chloride restrictions, even if we upgraded the plant. I'm not sure you got to what I was asking. So is there another course of action that could have been done other than developing the ICSA? Well, the big picture was if it was going to cost $10 million two years ago to do the plant upgrade and not address chlorides, then the conclusion ultimately came down to if we could do a band, if we could retire the plant and do the. Do the pump to Parkinsville, it was cheaper long term. If it's $20 million, and I actually saw the number, I've got an $8 million shortfall. But if I was just building an upgrade to Crooked Run plant, I wouldn't have the opportunities to tap into the other revenue streams that we found. Just I'll just conclude with this. The biggest takeaway I got from the Lake Frederick folks when they came to brief us in June was the big picture question. Why is the carbon dioxide? Why is the cost spread out amongst all the industry versus just the. Well, that was the question of should the other 16,500 customers in our system subsidize Lake Frederick? We didn't get the availability fees from them. We didn't get, we're not even breaking even on our treatment. So the Frederick Water Board said we shouldn't charge the rest of the system to subsidize it. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the chloride question, going back to Chairman about having a water solver term. Yes. Can you explain why you have this issue at Lake Frederick versus other locations? The belief is Lake Frederick is all residential. You have a small, you have the restaurant, but other than the restaurant and the clubhouse, it's a residential system where the rest of our systems are larger and they have a lot more commercial flows that dilute the ultimate streams that go to the treatment plant. So I think. I think that contributes to it. I also think that in talking to the water softener and just representatives we met with, other parts of our county don't have, don't have everybody on water softeners. Lake Frederick, it's the same water as everyone else has, but in Lake Frederick, everybody is getting a water softener. And talking, talking to the representative, he said he can, he can tailor the actual amount of salt. He can tailor it based on what the consumptions are at the house. What the, the, the, the, the, the water consumption is. What the, the, the appropriate homeowner's desire is for softening. He can adjust that. And he said he will work on that. And that's partially when we said, when we go to Parkins Mill, can you, can you continue to see, or we introduced new water. Can you work these things to see if you can reduce the salt consumption? And he said that their systems and they have wireless connections on some of them, they can manage it. But he said, yeah, he goes right now, I'm, I'm, I'm pretty busy down there installing them. And I didn't, that's what my, my relationship in that conversation was. We want to work together. I said, if you can find other ways to discharge brine, do it. If you can find ways to turn down the, the reproduction process, make it more efficient, less brine, that works for us too. And they said they would work on that. Any other supervisors have a question? Go ahead. You had mentioned on the growth, growth pays for growth. Availability fees to fund debt and expansion was not to the existing customers. But for new connections. So my question was, you know, you're passing it on to your existing customers versus what your statement. Right. And that's, that, that goes back to the fact that we didn't receive $7.5 million in a sewer availability fees. We received 1.6. So, so the, the, the decision was use that $20 a month to subsidize and you're never going to get that 7.5 million. I mean, that's what we're paying for. So we're not going to have to pay that in the short term. But that helps us get closer to the monies that we didn't receive. So these people from Lake Frederick would have paid when they bought the homes. The developer just didn't pass that. No, the developer didn't. He didn't invest in this in the sewer treatment with that 7.5, but he created a beautiful development. So he invested in the development. So the, so the, the comment was we didn't get, we didn't receive the money. So we don't have the money to offset. We're 7.5. We're $7.5 million short on the sanitary sewer availability fees. Okay, thank you. So the money should come from the developer. A quick comment to all of you in the audience. Some of you send us information as Board of Supervisors. Senator-elect Frederick Shue, that way everybody has the same information. The Chairman made the comment that this will go out. So if everybody gets the same information, it's a better outcome in the interest of time. I'll just put it there. Any other comments? Supervisor Wells? Absolutely. There's four or five components, and you mentioned some. Certainly, I'd like to go back and talk about those. One of the things that has gone back and forth for quite some time is the $20 of the cost going directly to ICA. They're the only ones in the system right now. And I've been very clear. I think that the best way for Frederick Water is to... Whenever you have a customer, whatever... The northern part of the county is going to have the same problem here in a couple of years, where you're talking about expansions up there. Trying to designate funds for there and designate funds for here. Your Frederick Water, just designate the funds all the way around and be done with it. They're all Frederick Water customers. Just let everybody share in it and be done. I understand. Thank you. Can I really do? I do appreciate the presentation, Supervisor Wells. I agree. I appreciate with your comment. The only thing I would add to your comment is when this was approved originally, it was approved by this board of supervisors perhaps long ago, not the same members, and it was accepted for on the engineering side and to operate by Frederick Water, and clearly it should have been designed so that this problem wouldn't have occurred down the road, that it would be compliant, as compliant as the rest of the system, so that there would be... It wouldn't be a burden for us to argue over who has to cover it. You're saying everyone should cover the cost equally if we have a problem, but ideally we wouldn't have had this problem in the first place. I agree. And thank you very much. We have a meeting in 10 minutes, and I'm going to try and get my comments to the county administrator by Monday. If anyone wants to add to them, we'll bring this to Senator Frederick Water. We'll just get it to him. Ask him. I have a quick question. I really have another... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's fine. Is that a work session, or do we want to just...
