Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2022-02-23
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=121
========================================================================

No, let me call you back and we can chat because the reason I'm afraid to call you, I didn't want to wake up in the morning and see if the kid had been knife killed. And yeah, okay. Okay. Mr. Williams, are you still on the line? Great, thank you. No way. And everything I missed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Call the meeting to order if we could, please. Vice Chairman McCarthy, would you lead us in the invocation and the pledge, please, sir? If you'll bow your heads and pray. Heavenly Father, we rely on you upon you for all things, not the least of which is wisdom and prudence. You know the needs of our community better than we do. We ask that you help us this evening to make wise decisions and to act prudently. In Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. Face the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands one nation under God indivisible with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. This is the period for citizen comments for agenda items that are not subject to public hearing. Mr. Chairman, we need to adopt the agenda. I'm sorry? Adoption of the agenda, yes. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I would move to amend the agenda to remove item 8. Item 8? Affirmative motion. Is there a second? I'd second it. You have a second? I did. All right. This is to adopt the agenda with removal of item 8. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. No. Now we have an amended agenda. Mr. Chairman, I move to adopt the agenda as amended. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the agenda as amended with one no. All right. That will bring us to citizen comments for agenda items not subject to public hearing. I think the three that you had, Ms. Phillips, were for Middletown. Yes, sir. Those would be for the item that you've just removed. Thank you. So I apologize. You three folks who signed up will have an opportunity to speak to the issue, but it will be at the second comment period close to the end of the meeting because that is no longer an agenda item. And we thank you for your patience. Consent agenda. How would the board like to handle that one? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. Motion in the second. Is there any discussion? That'll be a roll call. Supervisor Graver. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor. Aye. Wells. Wells, I'm sorry. Slaughter. Aye. And Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. We adopt the agenda, consent agenda as presented. Thank you. Good. Okay. That'll bring the board comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's been some discussion with my school board representative about having a joint meeting, and there's been much discussion by this board, including a vote 18 months ago to have a joint meeting. With this board having voted for a categorical budget and having not received one, I think it would be a good idea that we as a board reach out to the school board, and actually set a hard, fast date to see if they can meet it. And I would like to propose to this board that we extend next Wednesday, a week from today, I believe that will be March the 2nd, as an opportunity at five o'clock to meet with the school board to hear their budget needs and to have discussion. Comments? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. So I haven't seen the agenda, so do we have a budget meeting? Next week at five? I just totally don't know. I don't believe so, but I will look, Mr. Dunn. We have a budget work session at 530, so I could amend my time period to be earlier or later, whatever was the board's prerogative. I'm comfortable leaving that to staff to work out. Yes, sir. I'd like to ask. Let Mr. Graber answer the question first, please. Are you wanting, staff to work it out or you want us to set a time? I'm happy to set a time for four o'clock to have a meeting with the school board if that would be the pleasure of this board or we could make it afterwards at seven o'clock. In fact, I'll just do that. I'll make a motion that we meet at 7 p.m. with the school board to discuss their budget-related issues and questions. PC meeting. That's here, but we wouldn't have to have it in this room. Okay. All right. Mr. Chairman, he's made a motion. I'll shut up. It's just, it's a request. You can comment if you'd like, but you need to move on. All right. So my thought process would be if there is a PC meeting, I'd rather do something like at four o'clock, at least have the time to not be pushed up against a 5.30 budget, even 3.30, but I'd rather have an adequate amount of time to walk through the issues and so I'd propose 3.30 or 4.00 at least. At least that gives us an hour, an hour and a half. Any objections to 3.30 or 4.00? No. We'll ask staff to accomplish that. Ms. Phillips has it in her notes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, earlier today we received an email from counsel regarding some attorney-client privilege information. I asked him if the board had questions regarding that memo, the best way to handle that. I'd like to ask staff to schedule a closed session, and I'd like to ask the board to schedule a closed session for us to have the ability to speak with counsel on the memo that was released today. Understood. Is there any objection? We'll request counsel to schedule that. Thank you. At their earliest convenience. Thank you, sir. All right. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. One of the comments, we're doing supervisor comments. Yes, sir. I attended last week the Middletown volunteer fire and rescue operation, and I was told that the fire and rescue operation was going to be canceled. Yes, sir. And the county just needs to know, they do a great job. There are people there that have been working for 20, 30, and 40 years. Lisa Brombeck has been a volunteer there for 40 years. So it's truly a volunteer organization. They raise their own money. Yes, we help them on fuel and assistance, but they need to be recognized for the work they do. I know there's 11 other great stations as well, but Middletown just needs to be recognized for the great work that they do. Both their president, Gary Legg, and their chief, Mark Dalton, along with the staff that works there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? All right. Let's move on. Boards, committees, and commissions. The Hanley Regional Library, we have an application. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we accept the application from Mr. James Smith. I'll second it. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. No. No. Appointed. Hanley Regional Library Board, unexpired term. We have an application. Jimmy Smith. How would the board like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I think we voted on Jimmy Smith. I would make a motion to... I think the name just was mentioned incorrectly, but I didn't hear that. Since we voted on Jimmy, I would make a motion to also appoint Monica Williams. Correct. Okay. I skipped one. You skipped one? I did, by mistake. That was my mistake. No problem. All right. So the question is motion. Do we need a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Then Ms. Williams is appointed. All right. Human Resources Committee. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon everyone. I wish to commit someone as the clerk. I have a motion. Okay. One more second. Who is for Ms. Williams? Ms. Williams. Hi. Good afternoon everyone. Good afternoon. All those in favor, aye. Second? Mr. Chairman, this was a proposal that came out. The costs for this are being covered by the fees, so I'd suggest that we support this. I'll make a motion to approve. Motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. The change is approved. Finance Committee. Aye. Winchester Regional Airport requests an airport fund supplemental appropriation amount of $280,000. The amount represents funds needed for aviation fuel for the remainder of the physical year. No local funds required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Whale? Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. 11B is the Winchester Regional Airport Authority Quest Air Capital Fund Supplemental Appropriation amount of $296,477, and a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $126,190. These amounts represent additional funds for a DOAV grant, and the local share. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Public Works Director requests a Shawnee and Fund Supplemental Appropriation amount of $380,000. This amount represents... This represents funds necessary to seal a water leak below the lake. The request has been endorsed by the Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee and approved by the Public Works Committee. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. This is a direct result of some input from citizens up there in Shawnee Land that actually brought forth the provision to try to fix this leak. And I appreciate those citizens who stepped forth and gave us... Essentially introduced us to new technology that would save us a considerable amount of money that is environmentally responsible and also should do a very favorable job at taking care of the problems there in the lake that this money is going to fix. So I appreciate the Public Works Committee being willing to look at that and to accept outside opinions and to move forward with this recommendation. Thank you, sir. Any other comments? Discussion? Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Wells? Aye. Slaughter? Aye. And Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. And the chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number 456. And that was it. Those were all approved under consent. Would the board like to take them individually? Motion to approve them on consent. Yeah. No action needed. No action. So a motion to approve under consent. The three items are all for the sheriff and no local funds. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman, those have already been approved. I would... I would recommend we go on to 12 Acer public hearings. Mr. Chairman, you don't have a motion for those three yet. I do not have a motion for those three. You need one motion for the three. That's typically how you do that. This is a separate consent agenda on finance. Sorry about that. I made the motion to approve. Second. And was seconded. Is there any discussion? Okay. Now I think we're ready. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. And those three items are approved. Now we're ready to move to 12 A. It's an ordinance amendment, section 7-7, 7-8 of chapter 7, elections of the Frederick County Code. Jay? Rod? Rod. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board of Supervisors. I'm going to take a moment to address a few questions. The first one is on the Board of Trustees. This item is a corrective item as a follow-up, or an adjustment item as a follow-up from the redistricting exercise that the Board completed in December. As the Board will recall, at the time of completing that exercise, the state redistricting process for state legislative districts was not yet complete. At the end of December, the Supreme Court concluded that process per the procedure 6-7, which was the first time that the board was able to do that, was not yet complete. And so that was a major set out. And we came close to matching the lines, but not quite. They did not quite want to accommodate everything we had done. There were two areas that didn't quite match up. One of them is in the Back Creek District between the Kernstown precinct and the Cedar Creek precinct. There is a small area there. Mr. Varner has the map displayed. Yes, that's the map on page 6. Thank you. You'll see that little rectangle that juts out. If we left it the way it is, we'd have a split precinct where that area would be in the 31st House of Delegates district, which is towards the southern part of the county. But the people in that district are not in the same precinct. So I don't know if you can see that. I don't know if you can see that. I don't know if you can see that. Yeah, I don't know if I can see that. I don't know if I can see that. But it's approximately, I believe, 170 people affected by the change. And it's really not much of a change because pretty much it puts them back to where they were before we undertook this exercise. So I think that's fairly small housekeeping and respectfully submit that change as an order. The other change is in the Redbud District. This one geographically and population-wise is larger. We tried to convince the Supreme Court to shift that area as well. Same issue. That area is in a different – it's all contemplated to be part of a larger precinct with the area to the north of it, but would be split between two House of Delegate districts, which just causes voter confusion at the polls and potential for people getting the wrong ballot. And, you know, it's an interesting issue of optics, too, because how things appear on maps. The Supreme Court's special master commented that it would create a jagged edge had that area been added to the 32nd House of Delegates district, which was not an incorrect perception. But in the context of just the Frederick County map, it's not so jagged. But basically what we have is that the Redbud District has taken on – it's taken on a bit of a triangular shape with somewhat equal size. So anyway, the area bounded by the Opecan Creek and Route 50, Airport Road, Victory Road, back to Route 50, Sulphur Springs Road, and back to the creek would now become its own precinct. It has enough size to qualify, and we're able to have that precinct vote at Evendale. It's within the proper distance to do so, and we would avoid the split precinct issue. Which definitely simplifies things in terms of the process. So respectfully submit that's appropriate. I'm available for questions, and otherwise this is a public hearing item. Questions, anyone? Hearing none, we – This is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning this change? Did anyone sign up? No one signed up. No one signed up? No. Anyone that wanted to comment? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing. How would the Board like to handle this one? Chairman, I think part of this is Redbud. I would make a resolution that we pass this as proposed. I think that split precincts are not beneficial, and so I think this is a good way to solve the problem. I second the motion. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? So the voters – Even Dale, at that precinct. Who else is voting at Even Dale during elections? Todd? I can't remember which precinct. There is one other precinct, and I do believe it is a Shawnee District precinct. So we would have voters from two different districts voting at one precinct location? Yeah. We do, and recognizing that's not a perfect situation, but the good thing is when – the good thing is when they check in, they will check in with whichever precinct and show up on the books for that precinct, and the books will say what precinct they're in, so that once they ascertain which precinct they're in, they're given the ballot for that precinct, and there's not a further sort of sub-classification of them within the precinct. And I know – I think we do have a couple of situations now – I think we did before, and I think we – I think we've done it before. I think we've done it before. I think we definitely might now have situations where a couple of our precinct – our polling places may be serving as precincts – or polling places for precincts in different districts. It wasn't what we strived for, and we had hoped to avoid having to do this, but it's better than the alternative. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just wanted to make that clear. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman? Yes. I would also note that in the Gainesboro District, the Whitehall Precinct would vote at Apple Pie, and also then in the Stonewall District, the Sunnyside Precinct would also vote at Apple Pie, and they essentially would go in two separate doors. At least that's how they've done that in the past. Anyone else? All right. Motion in a second to approve. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That would bring us to 12B. Rod, did you want to introduce it? I will. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is another precinct item. This is in regards to the central absentee slash early voting, I suppose it's called now precinct. The voter registrar, provided definite indication that the use of the Sunnyside location as was done two years ago was highly preferable. Two years ago, we had that available and most people who voted in advance of the November date did so at that location. Of course, this past fall, we only had voting, the early voting at the Kent Street building and the building simply not laid out for it. This change would re-enable the Sunnyside location at this point for the 2022 elections only. Namely, we limited it to 2022 because of course, as the board knows, the the staff currently has a bid out. We have a bid solicitation out for renovation of space at Sunnyside for long-term usage. We want to make sure how everything fits in and falls out there but this would avoid the issue of sort of the messy situation of having all of the early voting at the Kent Street location. In consultation with the voter registrar, however, our conclusion was that the the voter registrar, however, our conclusion was that the voter registration was not required. The voter registration was not required. The voter registration was not required. we bought a string in just five stove GracelandYeah, he was on a campaign investigation case where the — where heどう I do want it team planning he was two homes at 10 miles away from the appeared for about a month of legal going through. Does she do did they do this all? Let us hear your thoughts on this.erd from being able to use the Sunnyside location. I'm available for questions. Questions of Mr. Mr. Chairman? Yes sir. I've received a lot of comments from people who are concerned about having more than one voting location and asking for some details as well. First question would be, if someone goes to Sunnyside to vote and finds they're not on the rolls but they're still within the proper time to register, will they be able to register or do any other functions at Sunnyside rather than being diverted down to Kent Street? I would have to defer to the registrar for that and I don't know if he's in attendance tonight or not. He is in attendance. He is shaking his head in a positive direction. Okay. Thank you. And then another concern is if we have multiple voting locations, that makes it more difficult to staff from guaranteeing vote security, it requires more people at all locations and also for the party representatives and candidate representatives. It's two different locations that they have to provide. I presume we're going to have a, we anticipate a long early voting period again this year? Based on General Assembly actions so far, it looks like, it's going to be a long early voting period again this year. Based on General Assembly actions so far, it looks like, it's going to be a long early voting period again this year. It looks like the early voting period is likely to be the same as it has been in the past. I think there's probably a difference of opinion between the two houses of the General Assembly on it. So with that being the case, the law would remain as it is. Thank you. So we have far fewer, we don't have local elections, so we don't have all that. Just the, right, just the congressional race. But if we had a lot of elections, I would definitely object to that. But if we had a lot of elections, I would definitely object to that. But if we had a lot of elections, I would definitely object to that. But if we had a lot of elections, I would definitely object to doing this without having a clear plan on how to do this without having a clear plan on how to do this without having a clear plan on how to guarantee security on voting. to guarantee security on voting. I hope we can get the Registrar's Office relocated so that we have one location for any early voting in 2023. We left it as 2022 only. Okay. Can you give us any more information on what law requires us to vote also at Kent Street? There are two code sections on the Registrar's Office. They are in Chapter 7 of Title 24.2 of the state code. And they refer to the voters being able to vote at the office of the Registrar or any other location so designated. And the problem is, in an abundance of caution, I feel I have to read or such other location really meaning that the voter had, that it's the voter's choice, not the locality's choice of which location that is. And I can only recommend being on the more cautious side of that in terms of making the provision. It's, one of the sections is 24.2-701.1, and then there's, I don't know, I don't know if I'm going to be able to read it. But it's, I don't know if I'm going to be able to read it. But it's, I don't know if I'm going to be able to read it. So we have some similar language in the next Section 701.2. Other questions of Mr. Williams, anyone? Hearing none. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No, sir. Did anyone want to speak to this issue? I will. If we could have your name, Magisterial District, and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. Mia Usmani, Opaquan District. Hi, Bob. My guy. Please make this happen. Sunnyside was used by everybody. I know that there is different political views here, but Republicans early vote, too, and we are going to have 45 days early voting. Why not make it easier for everybody? Having 300 to 400 people coming into Kent Street all in one day is absolutely insane. Plus, you're also charging them to vote. So Sunnyside has a location. It's a good place for this year, and he only wants it for one year, and hopefully we'll get a bigger building next year. So please, please do this. Thank you. Is there anyone else that wanted to comment? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment period. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move we approve B-12, the ordinance amendment to Section 7-3 of Chapter 7, Elections of the Frederick County Code. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Hearing none. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That'll bring us to Item 13A, Ordinance Amendment, Inoperable Vehicles, and Other. Thank you. Mr. Klein? Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. You all will be quite familiar with this item, but bear with me while I walk through what we are doing this evening. This is an amendment to Chapter 165, the zoning ordinance, to prohibit the unscreened storage of inoperable trailers. And when we talk about trailers, we're talking about trailers for towing, camping trailers, semi-trailers, and the like. Currently, the zoning ordinance prohibits the unscreened storage of inoperable motor vehicles. Again, that's your passenger vehicles. However, the current definition does not include provisions for the regulations of trailers. And this amendment is seeking to regulate trailers in the same manner that we regulate other inoperable motor vehicles, again, ensuring that when the zoning staff goes out to enforce the zoning ordinance, we're able to apply a consistent standard. The board held a public hearing on this item on January 26th, and you all at that meeting postponed action seeking additional written clarification and codification of the definition to ensure that motor vehicles and trailers displaying a farm use tag or being used primarily for agricultural purposes would not be subject to the regulations and enforcement of inoperable motor vehicles and trailers. That's currently the way that staff practices enforcement, but that amendment would further codify that in the definition section, ensuring that regardless of who the zoning administrator or zoning inspector is, the standard is consistently applied around the county. This item is presented to the board, and it's a motion to approve it. And it's presented to you all this evening as a public hearing item, and staff is seeking action by the board on this proposed ordinance amendment. I'm, of course, happy to answer any questions you may have as it pertains to this item. Any questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? No, thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No, sir. Is there anyone who would like to speak with this proposed ordinance change? Anyone? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing portion. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I move for adoption of the ordinance amendment. Second. Motion to adopt and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. All right. Planning Commission business? Aye. Second. So we're going to move to the next item, the public water and sewer service area. Ms. Perkins? Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is a request from Nick Santemeyer to authorize Frederick Water to serve one parcel of land that totals about two acres with public water and sewer. If I can direct you to the screen on your left, subject property is outlined in blue. It's located at 1930 Front Royal Pike. For reference, you do have 522 that runs along the frontage. This is the Canter Estates subdivision, and you have West Parkins Mill Road in this location. The property is Zone B1, which is a neighborhood business district. And as you can see, this green line is the current limits of the county's sewer water service area, so it is adjacent to that line. And it is the policy of Frederick County that only properties within the sewer water service area may connect to public water and sewer. So therefore, a special exception is needed from the board to enable Frederick Water to serve this property. So with this request tonight, it is a request that we would like to make a motion to approve this. So with this request tonight, it is a request that we would like to make a motion to approve this property. So with this request tonight, it is a request that we would like to make a motion to approve this property. It is not proposed to actually move the limits of the sewer water service area, so therefore, a public hearing would not be necessary. The board could authorize this tonight. So with that, staff is seeking a decision from the board on this request to authorize Frederick Water to serve this property. I'd be glad to answer any questions, and the applicant is here also. Any questions of Ms. Perkins? Anyone? Ms. Perkins, if this is extended, Ms. Perkins, if this is extended, Ms. Perkins, if this is extended, I'm not sure what the distance is there. I'm not sure what the distance is there. Where's the cost of that? And the applicant, correct me, he already has water currently. The sewer has already been extended across the creek, so he would just incur the cost to connect into that line. So there's no cost to the county. It has gone across the creek already? Yes. Okay. So it's a tap fee more than anything else? Okay. Thank you. Other questions, Ms. Perkins? Anyone? Supervisor Dunn? Ms. Perkins, how many other exceptions have there been? Do you know approximately? I'm not holding you to an exact number, but. Less than 10. Okay. Thank you. All right. One in five, less than 10. Thank you. Quite a few over all the years. Okay. Other questions? Anyone? How would the Board like to handle this request? Mr. Chairman, I would move we approve the Planning Commission business 14-8. Exception to request Nick Stammeyer, 19-3 Front Royal Pike. Second. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Schlager? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. 14-B. Aye. Supervisor Wood? Aye. Supervisor Wood? Aye. And thank you, Mr. Chairman. This item is a discussion for the 2022-2027 Capital Improvement Plan, the CIP. This is a document that consists of a schedule of major capital expenditures for the county for an ensuing five-year period. And there's also a category for long-range projects that are six-plus years out. Now, just to go over what the CIP, kind of what this document is for, it's a capital facilities planning document that serves to identify needs, capital projects that are in accordance with the broader policies that are adopted in the county's comprehensive plan. Now, the two documents, the comprehensive plan and the CIP, are mutually supportive. The comprehensive plan is the document that identifies areas that are suitable for development, as well as infrastructure that could be necessary. The CIP then translates those into capital projects designed to support the goals of the comprehensive plan. Now, note that while the program, it's a long-range document, it is reviewed and revised annually based on current circumstances and opportunities. I would note that the adoption of the CIP is neither a commitment to nor a particular project, nor is it a limitation to the cost that is shown in the tables. It serves as a basic tool for identifying ranking anticipated capital projects. And as I said, it is prone to change every year. Projects may not be funded within the categories or the budget years they're shown. Now, jump right into the CIP. We're going to include the CIP in front of you. There are three tables. First is general government services. This consists of 59 projects for schools, parks, library, administration, fire and rescue, which does include your volunteer stations, sheriff's office and public safety. Second table is transportation, which includes 27 projects. Table three is the airport, which is nine projects. The projects in these and the respective agencies and departments, these projects are tallied by those agencies reviewed by their boards or committees or the state. So, you can see here the CIP, the CIP in front of you. And that quickly develops into a Medicare CIP for whenever the boss or representative åha, mightตake any kind of proper meeting. They determined CIP is in conformance with the comprehensive plan and sent it forward to the Planning Commission and the Board. The Planning Commission then discussed this at their February 16th meeting. They also recommended approval and affirmed its conformance with the comprehensive plan. So tonight, staff is seeking authorization from the Board to schedule the CIP for a public hearing. I would be glad to send any questions, and we do have a number of agencies and departments represented here, should you have questions about the projects. Thank you. Thank you. Questions for Ms. Perkins? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. So this document is updated annually. Is there a hard deadline for doing that, or is that just a policy, a practice that we follow? With the CIP, the annual update, we always try to get it ahead of the budget cycle. It is a five-year document, and just the priority is always re-ranked and changed, so that's why we do update it annually. A long-range planning document? Right, and I note that we don't we're not committed to fund these items. It's for planning purposes. I also know that there's a number of items included that may be in question, even in a few short months. I know that the Governor wants to, one of his primary goals is to provide funding for charter schools, and that could change some of the capital improvements that the school district would need. We'd certainly want to take advantage of funds rather than, let's say, spend tens of millions of dollars revising an old school. We'd certainly want to take advantage of funds rather than, let's say, spend tens of millions of dollars revising an old school. facility or building a new high school if there was a better financial alternative for us coming from the state. So I just want to raise the issue as to whether there were some concerns on the Planning Commission about some of these items. There's questions about some of the projects, but I would note that any future changes in what may happen, the CIP wouldn't impact those whatsoever. Thank you. Further questions? Supervisor McCarthy. So does this Board have the prerogative to amend or change the CIP? If the Board would like to remove projects from the CIP, it is your prerogative. Following up on Supervisor Ludwig's comments, you know, I've been working closely with a local foundation that is working hard to put in an indoor aquatic center, an ice rink. I don't see that we would need to keep that in our CIP if we know that we have broad support within the community. We need to do that as a private endeavor. So I wouldn't be opposed to seeing those two things removed from this and allow that to be something that we no longer focus on as one of our projects and allow that foundation to continue to move forward with it. This isn't discussion time, so I'll wait until later. Further discussion, comments, anyone? Hearing none, how would the Board like to handle this one? I thought... Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a motion that we amend the capital improvement plan prior to putting it out to a public hearing, and I'd welcome a second to that so we can have discussion. I'll second it for the purposes of the discussion. Thank you. Discussion? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'd like to just elaborate a little bit on Supervisor McCarthy's comments. I agree we have a wonderful community organization that are getting some things together for the swimming pool, and I believe that it may be a very positive move going forward. So I agree with Supervisor McCarthy. I believe that probably ought to come off of the capital improvement plan. Two other things that have been alluded to already, and I think it was very well noted. The fourth high school is on the plan. If charter schools are implemented, there's a strong probability that some of those students may be out of the public school system and into a charter school so that there may not be a need for a fourth. And the second item is, is the school board and school administration promised this board when the money was given for the new Aylor that the Aylor school would be given back to this board as surplus property. So I'm very concerned that the 40 plus million is in the capital improvements plan for a renovated Aylor. So I would like to see the fourth high school and the 40 million for the renovated Aylor and the swim and ice rink come off of the CIP and possibly an allotment for Millbrook High School. But I do think that the 5 нас area that we're providing, that is in this program with the work done here is bleached. We also have, we want to make sure that a very substantial ein Ming construction plan works well. Oak et al degree is pro 21 and if it does well, it's good to do. I think that we've worked quite consistently versions in field work discussions with those that are involved with the politics and the instead of the things that viennent from the industrialization council and that where they want to see things completely under control. I don't know. I can't get above that development plan because of понятно, we got to be working? We've got to get past infrastructure construction, whatever we've got in the Onn millimeter, but it's great for us to develop space. We've got to take things one street at a time, and what we want to do is take the college, This is a $400-plus million CIP. I'm just curious from the department heads, what do you really expect to, what are your highest priorities for the next five years? So, for example, in fire and rescue, there's two proposals for fire stations, new fire stations. I know that one of them is a high priority. The second one was new information to me. There was discussion on the old ailer. We were told that building was no longer needed. So I'm just like to see what the highest priorities are from each of them before we vote on this. That's all. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'm not opposed to the removal of the certain items that you mentioned, but I'm not in favor of adding the one item that you had mentioned. So I'm going to vote against it because I'm not in favor of adding that item. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. This is a question for Mr. McCarthy. Would you be willing to amend my motion to... Amend your own motion. I'll second if you want. Okay. Mr. Chairman, I would amend my motion and simply take off the addition of the Millbrook High School expansion. Second. Move which? Millbrook High Expansion. No. All right. All right. And there's a second on the motion to amend. Is there discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Just one question. Mrs. Perkins, could I go back to Mrs. Perkins with a question? When we arrive at the development impact model, if that school is taken off of the CIP, will that affect your calculation? The need? With the project that was discussed, the addition. But we took that off. The Millbrook one. With the school rankings, the impact model is a little different. How it deals with schools versus, say, parks, fire rescue, all those, because schools are based on capacity. Okay. So the projects won't really impact any monetary values from a residential development. So anything going future into the future to add as far as our development impact model would not compute into those numbers? Our schools. Adding? Right. Adding or taking away school projects because it's based on capacity of the existing schools. And that determines the need. Whereas if you remove projects in any of the other categories, that could reduce any allocations. Any clarification? Thank you. While you're up there, could you go put the list back up on the screen so I can see that? Thank you. Could you just leave that up there? Thank you very much. Okay. Further discussion? Anyone? Are we ready? Motion is to remove three items. Motion is to amend. Motion is to amend. Motion is to amend. Motion is to amend to remove one item. I thought it was four items there, Mr. Chairman. The four items to remove were the $40 million renovated Aylor, the fourth high school, the $24 million swimming pool, and then the ice rink that was 10 to 12. The ice rink is the one I missed. I'm sorry. That's fine. Mr. Chairman, I believe Mr. Graber made a motion and Mr. McCarthy seconded because Mr. Graber had added the Millbrook High School monetary amount to add to the $40 million. He had additional seating. So I think the motion you would be voting on is to remove the Millbrook addition from the list and then trickle down. That's the way I had it, but I did not have the ice rink on as a separate list. Thank you, sir. All right. Any discussion? Yeah. Clarification. So on this current item is to remove the Millbrook addition? Yes. So let me read this. I think the Millbrook addition is a good situation. I mean, we voted $9-something million a number of years ago to try to deal with capacity. So I'd like to see that left on. So this goes back to Mr. Chairman, to my comment. I'd like to see a ranking of what's most important from top to bottom in the next five years. I don't think we're going to do everything in the next five years. So my thought process was let the various people here rank what we need, and then we can look at that. Any discussion? Any more? Further discussion? Anyone? All right. The motion is to amend a prior motion to remove Millbrook High School from the list of four items on the CIP. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Clarification. Yes. Millbrook is staying on the CIP? No. It is being removed. It is being removed. It is being removed. It is being removed. It is being removed. It is being removed from the list of prior, which were five items. Now we're... Thank you, sir. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? No. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Now we will be back to the amended motion, which is to remove the Aquatic Center, the fourth high school, Aylor, and renovation, and the ice rink. Would the Board like to handle that one? That is the motion. Is there discussion? Anymore? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. you mr. chairman hi at the moment hi supervised McCarthy supervisor slaughter I'm sorry well but you're either walls no supervisor slaughter no surprise or Ludwig hi chair votes no the motion carries now back to the original request and that is to forward the CIP to public hearing mr. chairman yes sir I would move that we forward the amended CIP to public hearing second motion in a second is there discussion anyone hearing none supervisor Ludwig I supervisor slaughter I supervisor wells I supervisor McCarthy supervisor done by supervisor Graber hi chair votes on the motion carries will forward the amended CIP to public hearing that brings us I believe to board liaison reports are there any anyone citizen comments it's a portion of the meeting for citizen comments on any issues any issues they might bring before the board we're gonna start with those folks who signed up for their earlier comment period yes sir mr. chairman Bob Clark named magisterial district and limits your comments three minutes or less please sir thank you sir Bob Clark Opec and district I just want to thank the board for their thoughtful approach to the issue that I'm here to discuss for 302 group today in the working session I thought that was impressive so I'm going to go ahead and start with the board's comments on the amended CIP to public hearing I'm going to go ahead and start with the board's comments on the amended CIP to public hearing I'm going to go ahead and start with the board's comments on the amended CIP to public hearing Please slope your seat nominees as such since the worship of Arizona residentattened closing by the governor's direction any other item would benefit the board and you have the liberty any other minimal negative impact on the residents of Middletown. As we know in the United States, we have our former government as representative since citizens, since all citizens of political boundary can't sit behind the desk, that group comes together and elects a single representative, a single citizen to represent them and their collective interest base, their voice. This relationship between the citizens and their citizens' representative is a sacred covenant long established and protected by our Constitution. This covenant not only guarantees the citizens a voice in political affairs that will affect them the most, but also guarantees their right to be heard. The legal principle here is the interconnectivity between the citizen's voice and the ability of the voice to be heard. The citizen's right to have an unabridged voice comes by way of the US Constitution, as does their right to be heard, which is assured by the elected representation and the right of the citizen to hold the elected representation accountable. This principle is recognized by the US Supreme Court in Kleinstein versus Mandela in 1972, where Justice Thurgood Marshall observed, quote, the freedom to speak and the freedom to hear are inseparable. They are two sides of the same coin, end quote. Middletown's annexation of Frederick County lands east of Interstate 81 will create a Middletown jurisdictional island within Frederick County that will, in completeness, split this coin in half, severely abridging the rights of Frederick County residents by removing our voice from the rights of the citizens, and the right to be heard by any elected representative. The fight to protect our land is a fight between the few who seek only to annex the land for economic interest, disregarding the plainly obvious risk of harm to the rights of Frederick County residents, and the many who seek to preserve, protect, and have a voice in the future development of the land. As I have stated, shared in the past, this value and importance of protecting the quality of life of the many versus the economic interests of the few cannot be overstated. Recognized by the US Supreme Court and Sierra Club, versus Morton 1972, the court stated, aesthetic and environmental well-being, like economic well-being, are an important ingredient to quality of life in a society. And the fact that the particular environmental interests are shared by the many rather than the few does not make them less deserving of legal protection through the judicial process. We are Frederick County strong, so again I'm asking, please help us protect our land, our interests, our future, keeping Frederick County lands in Frederick County. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Blaine Williams. Thank you, sir. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Name, Magisterial District. Limit your comments to three minutes or less, please, sir. My name is Blaine Williams, Opecan District, neighbor of Mr. Clark's. I'd like to speak in opposition to annexation as well. Listening to the comments, I think, is a good way to say, you know, we're not going to be able to do anything that we're not going to be able to do. I think listening to what was voiced here this evening at your all's joint effort, I appreciate those efforts, but however, it seemed to be lacking on the citizens that live in the direct area. You know, everybody was focusing on Middletown, you know, at the annexation and the businesses that have property in the area that want to develop that property. I think the citizens are a big part of the area, and they need to be heard and recognize the impacts that this development and annexation will happen to them that will impact them. So I'd like to say I'm opposed to it. I think everybody that lives in Kendall Mills and on the east side that don't have a vested interest in property ownership of the B2 development would be opposed to it and are opposed to it. I appreciate your time. Thank you. Thank you, sir. George Reyes. Welcome, sir. Raise the speaker up there for me. Thank you, sir. Hello. Okay. Good evening, Mr. Sherman and Board of Supervisors. Again, I'm a neighbor for Mr. Clark and Mr. Williams. Name and magisterial district, please, sir. Jorge Reyes. Yes, sir. Alpacorn. I just moved to the area a year ago to encounter this situation happening in such a beautiful rural area of historic value. And I mean, again, the annexation, just because of that reason, the infrastructure is not there either. And I thought that the way that we're kind of developing the government at this time is more into smart development. Tractor trailer stop is not a smart development for Middletown because I'm pretty sure that you would not put a farm in Old Town Winchester because it's not the aesthetic that you want to create for a place like this. So the same I will say to the area. That rural historical area doesn't need a tractor trailer. That exit doesn't need a tractor trailer stop. So that's why I'm against the annexation and all that brings into that situation because I will lose my voice in this forum. I spent 23 years in the military to defend that constitutional right, and that's what I'm doing right now. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Steven Luttrell. Welcome, sir. Steven Luttrell, the Redwood District. I'm here today to talk about creating opportunities for families in our community to have the freedom to do what is best for themselves. A voucher system would create amazing opportunities for growth in the community and encourage more families to move here, thus increasing our revenue from taxes as well. While a voucher system sounds like a perfect opportunity, it was brought to my attention that the school vouchers are not legal in the state of Virginia. Well, sometimes you have to think outside of the box. Enter the Virginia 529 Savings Plan. According to the withdrawal guide, a section entitled K-12 Education says funds may be used towards up to $10,000 tuition per year at any elementary or secondary public, private, or religious school as determined under applicable law. According to the program description, a section entitled Contributing to an Account says any individual or individual that is eligible for a voucher system, any individual or individual that is eligible for a voucher system, or a student of a state, can contribute funds to an account at any time, but only the account owner who will have control over the contributions. I called both the Virginia 529 and Virginia state tax offices I called both the Virginia 529 and Virginia state tax offices and both confirmed that they were not aware of any laws that prohibit a county from contributing to this fund on behalf of the student. So now let's get down to logistics. Let's say that you offered $4,000 per student. If 1,000 students took advantage of the program, that would cost $4 million. million dollars obviously far less people would take advantage of the program especially at first but that would be a reduced strain on the overloaded public schools in the county I think this is a great opportunity for our county and the residents in it let's have Frederick County lead the state in bringing freedom to our residents just to put it in your perspective a thousand students I think according to so vine it was around nine hundred and sixty one students that we've gained in the past ten years so you know thousand students is a really high number but in reality you know any any couple hundred would make a significant impact on the overloading that we're seeing another issue of concern which you guys actually addressed earlier the proposed school budget to two hundred sixty eight point eight million dollars for the 22 school year Frederick County Public Schools administration says that the cost per pupil is thirteen thousand in Frederick County well if that's true then we're what are we doing with that budget? I think we're doing a great job for the school district as well as the other 85.5 million on that budget I have requested a copy of the FCPS audit since that is not available on the website with the FOIA request and I will be looking at that and the county audit which is available on the county website I would like this board to dig in themselves and look over the budget before approving it in April I would like to see this board implement categorical funding which you guys said said that you're trying to do some of the things I have been told about the budget or appalling and I am I aim to find proof of these allegations before bringing them forward, but I would like this board to do the same. Let's bring accountability to our schools and bring back faith in our institutions. Thank you. Thank you. Jody Yeagey. Welcome. Down a little bit. There you go. Thank you. Thanks. Mr. Chairman and Board, my name is Jody Yeagey, and I'm a resident of the Redbud District. You again took action on a non-agenda item with no public input, but I'm still going to speak out on that this evening because I think it's important. I live in an area where 100 new homes are being built. While I'm happy to have new neighbors, I certainly hope that none of them have high school students. Millbrook is at 114% capacity. James Wood High School is at 112%. And Cheran. Cheran, though, is over 120% over capacity. It takes about three years to build a new high school. We haven't even started. You suggested the charter legislation that you think might be coming, and while it might be wishful thinking, all charter legislation died in committee this year. None is moving forward. So the problems still exist. All of our students are still going to be in public schools, no matter how much you wish a charter school were going in. So earlier, Mr. Graber shared concerns about how capital projects keep coming. That's what happens when you have a growing community and you keep kicking the can down the road with your facilities. Instead of addressing a long overdue problem, some members of this board have suggested that we should open up the county wallet to fund private schools and possibly homeschooling. The over 14,000 students in Frederick County Public Schools deserve to attend schools where they aren't overcrowded. We can start to address this problem now, without raising taxes. This represents both a future conscious and fiscally responsive, or prudent, if you will, use of our tax dollars. The need isn't going anywhere. The time is now to invest in our schools. Thank you. Thank you. John Fredrickson. Good evening. Welcome, sir. Mr. Chairman. Up there just a bit. Certainly. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, supervisors, others, I'm John Fredrickson. I'm a member of Redbud District. I'm also one of your election judges, and I enjoy living in the county. I've been here just about six years. It's a great place to live. You have a lot of, we have a lot of really good stuff. I'm concerned about the schools. I served for 34 years as a superintendent of schools, in Minnesota and Maryland. And I've got a lot of experience in terms of how a postponement or an overcrowding situation affects a lot of things, like the educational quality, discipline, and the like. You also start rolling things like transportation into it and food services that can cause real problems. I'm here to support our schools and our students. You have fantastic teachers. You have some wonderful kids. I want you to do everything you possibly can within your power to support them. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Chris Davey. Welcome, sir. Good evening. Chris Davey, Bat Creek District. Mr. Cuthrell covered a lot of stuff that I want to talk about, but I do want to just let you guys know, I do also support the school choice, what we're doing. We're doing a lot of work on the school choice, whether it's vouchers, which sounds like we might not be able to do that, but there's other ways we can do this. My son, I already pay taxes for public schools, but I still have to also pay to send him to private school as well. My taxes are going to public schools without anything coming back to me. And it's a waste of my tax dollars right now going to public school that I'm not utilizing, and I'm not going to be able to pay for it. I grew up in the in Frederick County my whole life. Multiple generations have been in Frederick County. I, too, went to public school, but from when I went to public school here to what public schools are now, I would not send my son to public school at all with all the issues that we have in public school. Many issues are arising daily as well, along with violence that's going on in public schools, which will be addressed at school board meetings as well. That I do not need my son exposed to, along with a lot of teachings that's being taught. I know a big issue that teachers want to try to bring up about us trying to do a school choice program is that they think we're trying to take their jobs away from them. That is further from the truth. What we're trying to do is help their jobs. So if you have an overload of students in schools like people are talking about already, school choice is a big issue. And I think that's what we're trying to do. We can only help alleviate some of that burden on the teachers by allowing parents that right now can't afford to send their kid to a private school. But if there was that budget that they could physically have to afford that, they would do so. Whether it be a charter school, a Christian school, whatever they would choose, homeschool. I know many teachers are afraid to speak out because of Sabine and how he handles situations that have talked to me that are in support of school choice as well. So please listen to that as well. Not only the teachers that are not afraid of Sabine because they're speaking what he wants to happen. So please definitely consider moving forward with a school choice. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Sonia Morford. Good evening. Can you hear me okay? My name is Sonia Morfati Agud and I am a resident of Back Creek. Let's talk about tax dollars. I support school choice. I also support our public schools. My tax dollars help fund fire and rescue. I have not had to call fire and rescue in order to fund them for an accident that might happen at my house. I live in Back Creek. I don't live in Redbud. But my tax dollars fund the roads of Frederick County. I don't use those roads, but I still fund them. How are we going to function as a county if you pick and choose what your tax dollars want to go to? This is just how society and our county works. I don't... I'm going off tangent. I had written something and I do want to speak to that. So anyway, when my husband and I moved to Winchester, we were told that Frederick County was a great place to raise a family. There are people... The people are friendly. Schools are decent. There are plans to build a fourth high school. And this was in 2012. Ten years later, where is it? Especially with the land that was purchased. You just took it off the county CIP list. We have new neighborhoods being built all over the county. We have new neighborhoods being built all over the county. All three high schools are over capacity. A Millbrook addition is not going to solve the overcrowding issue. Sharando is at 120%. The Jameswood high school renovation does not even address overcrowding. A fourth high school will alleviate these issues. Frederick County has exceeded budgeted revenue for the past four years. We have over $40 million in the capital fund. So don't tell me we don't have money for a fourth high school. Over 14,000 students walk through our public schools every day. Don't you care about our children? Don't our children deserve better? We need a fourth high school. The time is now. Thank you. Mia Usmani. Hello, board. Again, I'm back again. Mia Usmani, Abiquan, Bob, how's it going? And everybody else. The annexation. I want to take a moment and thank Mr. McCarthy for the two, for that two-boat. For two foundation to bring it up. I was at that ribbon cutting yesterday to go with support and take some pictures. And I also looked at the land for that. Dinosaur land over there. And I thought that was a really, really good location by dinosaur land. I thought that that was one of the considerations. So again, thank you very much for bringing that forth. Annexation. Appreciate that hour that we all listen to. And I appreciate that. Thank you. I thought it was a really, really good meeting. One of the things that I did wait until after that, the ribbon cutting, because no politics during things like that. But I saw Charles there, Mayor Charles. And some of you were bringing up the things that I was mentioning to him. That we don't want to be annexed. We don't want to be in islands surrounded where we have no voice. I'm going to edit what Bob said. I'm going to make a Shinhone and I'm going to make the very martial law, which does nothing to think about with a population that hasger. And I miss that. Thank you. Thank you . Hi. How are you doing. Nice to see you both. And it's good to see you again. It's very special. Wow. And could that not go to Middletown's needs? They are servicing so many people. It would be nice to be able to help them. So I really, really like that, to not do the annexation, keep us in Frederick County, where we can have a voice, you know, what's coming in and out of our neighborhoods. And the infrastructure absolutely needs to have, that has to be worked on. But how do you help Middletown? And after hearing what happened to Schaefer's Barbecue, oh my God, annex that. They seem to both want it. Help Schaefer's too. Anyway, thank you very much. Laura Jarrell. Welcome. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, my name is Laura Jarrell, and I'm a resident of the Opecan District. As you consider the budget over the next few weeks, I urge you to invest in our public schools. Our schools are busting at the seams, and the county has the funds to invest in our students. Dr. Savine's proposed budget is more than reasonable and should be fully funded. Our teachers and staff have worked so hard, they deserve to have the support of their community. It is our duty to ensure that students have the best education possible. It's interesting how people want their tax money back for schools. Can I request tax dollars back for services that I don't use? I just think that that's an interesting concept. And I would like to say, Mr. Graber, despite your completely inappropriate suggestion at the last meeting that I move, I will not be moving, and I will continue to stand up and speak out for the students of our community. Thank you. Woo! That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else who would like to bring anything to the attention of the board? Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Sparkman, Redbud District. Gentlemen, ladies, I'm hearing an awful lot of untrue things today. First of all, as far as I know, people I've talked to, all the private schools are busting at the seams right now. We don't really have room out there, because so many people are fleeing. We're not even in the public school system. Homeschooling is very, very viable, and there are very good programs coming forward with that for people who have parents that can actually do the homeschooling for them. Overcrowding of schools? Excuse me. Dow J. Howard has about half of its classrooms unused. Why? Is that not part of the public school system? No. No. No. Second, if we would roll back the number of students per classroom for five years ago, we wouldn't have any overcrowding. We have overcrowding because the legislature, under pressure from the teachers' associations, have lowered the number of people in the classroom again and again and again until now, we're out of room. We can't put any more people in there, when they used to have a lot more people than that in there. This is just a game, a little trick, to force us to build more high schools. Now, I know we're going to build more high schools eventually, but let's not fall for these kinds of tricks. Let's not waste our money on that kind of thing. Furthermore, we're paying an awful lot per student compared to other school systems. We're wasting a lot of money. We need a full audit of the school system. Find out. I don't know if this money is going to. They don't talk to us, but they always have their hand out, more money, more money, more money. I pay my taxes too, and it's probably more than I would like to pay. But the school system is important because we're educating our kids. No, we're not. Have you seen the SQLs, SOLs from last year? They're way down. We are doing a lousy job of educating our kids. It's history. Why? Well, because we have to teach a different kind of history. So they flunked their SOLs. Look into those things. Our school system is not doing us right, and we need correction on that point. We need correction on the truth of overcrowding. We need truth on the availability of private schools. We need truth on the availability of private schools. And we need really to look at what is best for our students and for our communities, because I don't think we're getting it from Dr. Sovine. Thank you very much. I hope he ends too. Anyone else? Yes, ma'am. Martha Sparkman, Redbud District. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Blaine. Sorry. You do a good job. I'd like to talk about supply and demand. In the last two years, we've had a lot of changes, and the biggest thing was the shutdown. That 15 days, what's it now, about 700 that it's turned into. I'm glad that a lot of things have opened back up. But the supply of students to schools and the demand, there's just something that's changed. A lot of parents have actually gotten to see what is going on in the classroom because they had the remote learning. And a whole lot of parents have decided they want something different. I think that's a good thing. When someone wants something and they realize that they can change their situation, they can change the situation for their children. They see something that's not working, and they see something that can work. And there's an opportunity there. And I think that many of the parents are going to either start homeschooling or already have. And they'd like some more opportunities as well. When you have a monopoly, you end up with people who are trapped. I don't like being trapped. I don't like anybody who likes being trapped. When my children were younger, I found out about a number of books that were in the schools. This was up in Portland, Oregon. And they were nothing short of pornographic, and we looked into this, and the law was at that point and that place that anyone who displayed or showed pornography to a child who had committed a felony, but then we looked further and found out if they were an educator, it didn't apply to them. I don't know exactly how that works here, but I just looked up Virginia 18.2-374.4, Display of Child Pornography or Grooming Videos or Materials. There are several books in the schools here in this county and in this state and across this country that qualify as pornography, and they are in elementary school libraries. Somebody says something about them, and they're accused of wanting to censor things or ban books. Something that shows explicit sexual actions between minors or involving a minor and an older person, I don't think that belongs in a public school library. Really? I don't think. It belongs in a moral society, and I think that choice is a really good thing. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, ma'am. Good evening, Board of Supervisors. Priscilla Riddell-Bolito and Ms. Judith McCain-Slaughter is my representative in the Stonewall District, and she's the editor for the Boston Public Azimuth hybrid program of affordable closure books that I and I'm in a joint effort to OneAway north's our state. deutsche mine, We guesst такое in euk nurse Detroit, but my officers state today that Urge graduates from bad school are very minaia. First of all, I'd just like to say that I greatly support Frederick County public schools. Ms. Michelle Gordon hugs her students. We have some fantastic teachers in FCPS. However, we have some teachers, like in any arena, that are lacking in various areas. And I've learned that from hundreds, literally hundreds, of parents and students over the last four weeks. I also support school choice, though. If my son could stay in the fourth grade at Redbud for the remainder of his school career, I wouldn't pull him out, even if there were other options in the county, because we love Redbud. We love the administrative team, and we love most all of the teachers there, the ones that my son has had. However, FCPS needs some cleaning up. My son's not going to stay in the fourth grade at Redbud forever. And I had a book review committee that I met with today at Redbud Elementary regarding this series of Houghton Mifflin Publishing books. It is a series that was purchased by this district, and I have tabs. This is another one. I have tabs throughout these books of material that is not appropriate for any public school. There are certain things in our belief system. That start at home and stay at home. And then there are certain things that public schools are obligated to teach. And both of these books, cover to cover, are full of cultural appropriations and racial slurs, even a disability joke. These things have to be cleaned up to make our schools high quality again. The book review committee is doing what they do in completing that process. And then the Board of Education. The Board of Education will also complete some sort of process. We can't keep letting this happen, though. There can't keep being book review committee, book review committee formed every couple of years. Good leaders develop good followers. Mr. Strong has an awesome team of really good followers at Redbud Elementary. But it's more than that. It's district. We've got to clean the classrooms up. We have to clean the classrooms. We have to clean up the curriculum. We have to make the public education high quality. While also, perhaps, providing a choice for people. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment portion. You've got to be quick, sir. I will be quick. Mark J. Stepanski, Gainesboro District. What we've heard here tonight is kind of interesting. I guess either side. The one thing that I guess we can unify on is the fact that there needs to be some accountability. There's money that is questionable, missing, not appropriated the right way. Some support for the public schools. I support them, too. I mean, it's kind of amazing that people want to leave public schools, but there's a reason for that. And boiling it down, it has to be something's wrong. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. And last time I spoke, sent an email earlier that week with some things that you all can do to help with that. So, I'd like to review with that. And if I can help out in any way, please let me know. Anyway, thank you very much. Thank you, sir. We'll close the public comment portion. Board of Supervisors' comments, are there any? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. So, our budget is approximately half. goes to the schools and half goes to the county. And we've heard numbers of capacities, et cetera. For all of you, I'd just like to encourage you to encourage the school board and us to be able to get together and chat. On the capacity issue four years ago, there was a comment that schools would be overcapacitated by 400 people or so, and this board appropriated $9-something million to meet the need. It wasn't in new high schools. You have overcapacity how do you meet the need? And so we came up with a dollar figure to meet that need. It would have been 20 classrooms ballpark, 20 kids in a classroom to meet the need. The school board at the time turned it down. Eighteen months ago, I asked for just a joint meeting. We are chatting. You come up here and chat, we chat back. I just wanted to have a chat with the school board, all of us, and we can talk about our differences, where we agree, et cetera. So for school board members, take Mr. Gray. Mr. Gray. Mr. Gray. Mr. Gray. Mr. Gray Mr. Gray. Mr. Gray. Mr. Gray. Mr. Gray. By a vote. It was not mandated. By a vote, he decided to cut the capacity number. That total capacity number was over 600 students in the elementary school. The total capacity was about 900 students. spent some $30 million to build a new elementary school of less than 600, like 500 and something. I don't have numbers here in front of me. So we made an arbitrary decision to cut capacity on numbers, and then we spent $30 million for 500. And that just doesn't make sense. So we need to have a conversation, not just three minutes here or two minutes here, but just to go into depth. I'm willing to listen to other comments where you disagree with me, and vice versa. And Ms. Yege, if we can just chat at the moment, I think you'd be made some good comments before. I don't know what the thing that was not on the agenda was, but the last time you chatted, I thought your comments were valid. We had made a decision to meet, so I don't know what you're referring to here, but if we could chat for a minute, I'd appreciate the end. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? Vice Chairman McCarthy. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. Motion to adjourn. A second? Second. A second. And all those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll stand adjourned. We thank everyone for their time and attention. Thank you.
