Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2020-06-10
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=53
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. There was one of those that was citizen comments not on the agenda. Was there not? All three of those were items that are not on the public hearing agenda items. They are regular agenda items, which is where citizen comments would cover. We have them. Thank you. All right. So that will bring us to the consent agenda. Supervisor? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to pull 6H, as in 6 Hotel, off the consent agenda and maybe review it directly after we consider the consent agenda items. Okay. We'll remove 6H from the consent agenda, and we'll deal with it as 6H, but not under consent. Anyone else? Yes. How would the board like to handle 6H? 6A through 6G on consent. Motion to approve as suggested. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and motion carries. That will bring us to 6H. Mr. Chair? This is the proposed extension of the Declaration of Local Emergency for COVID-19 Pandemic. Supervisor Graber? Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to discuss this a little bit in more depth. I believe it's a little overstretch to push this through the end of the year. The current item that is before us goes through December the 31st of this year, 2020. With what appears to maybe have reached the peak there, I believe it is time to get back to somewhat normal operations, and therefore I do not believe that we should proceed with this declaration extension as has been presented to us. So I would like to make a motion that we do not extend the local declaration. Okay. Is there a motion? Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Go ahead. Go ahead. So I concur with Mr. Graber. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. how severe this is. In 1918, you had 116,000 deaths, and the, or 675,000 deaths in the Spanish flu. In 1957, 1958, you had 115,000 deaths in the Asian flu. In the 68, 69, you had the Hong Kong flu with 100,000 deaths. Any death is significant, but overall, we had other situations which that occurs. Life has risk. And so in the last two years, you've had 60,000 people die of the flu in 2018. You've had 40,000 people die of car accidents. So I think that eliminating this, life has risk, but we just have to live with that risk. In addition, there is a proposal by the Congress to add another $3 trillion of money for debt for COVID. I wanna put that in perspective. It's important just for a moment, Mr. Chairman. In 1974, we had $475 billion in debt. Last year, or this year, we have 26 trillion. In this current budget, we will spend 479 billion, which is more than the total debt of 1974 on interest alone on that debt. That's gonna have an economic effect that's gonna be devastating to people in the county. It's $76,000 per person. So for those reasons- I'm sorry. For those reasons, I concur with Mr. Raber. Thank you, sir. We were fine until we referenced another action, and then we were not on the subject of the motion. Thank you. Mr. Chairman? Yes, Supervisor Fischer. Not having this emergency declaration in effect, does that in any way limit us to any funding or any issues that the government or state, or the state government has to address? Well, I think it's pretty clear that the state might provide to us if we do not have this in effect, and we would be eliminated. I guess the- Yes, it does. Bottom line is, what does it hurt to have this in effect, even though we might not agree with it in some type of principle, but- Mr. Chairman? Without, yes, sir? If I could, just for the sake of clarification, while I understand and appreciate the comments of all the board members, this declaration does not impose any limitations on businesses' ability to function, to open, with or without this declaration, what the governor's mandates do will be in effect. What this does is keep us eligible for federal, state reimbursements that may become available. I understand the comments that have been made, but my thought would be that one of the reasons to keep us eligible for federal state reimbursements, the one that's going to be in effect, is that the government has to keep this in effect for the end of the year. The CARES grant that we have just recently received, which we're still trying to sort out eligible expenses, runs through December. That's why we picked that date. So I don't think any of us really know what's gonna happen or transpire between now and then, but by having this in effect, should we incur expenses as a result of that, it would keep us in the running for potential reimbursement. So that's staff's rationale for proposing the extension. Mr. Grave. Mr. Chairman, what this does, however, it does give county administration the ability to make a lot of decisions financially and otherwise that bypasses this board. And I believe that where we stand with this pandemic or lack thereof at the present time in our county, if this needs to get revisited, we can do that. If we need to get revisited at a later date, I believe we can do so. However, I don't feel there's a need to continue to relinquish some of the authority of this board for budget-making or other matters in this format. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir, Supervisor McFarland. I have a comment and a question. My first question to the county administrator to follow up on your comment about the CARES Act. We received, I believe, 50% of the state's allocation to us with regard to the CARES Act at this point, and then the legislature will take up at some point whether or not that other 50% will come to us. Is there any other funding that you're aware of under the CARES Act that we would need to be in a state of emergency in order to qualify for at this point? Some traditional reimbursement comes with local declarations of emergency, as we've discussed before, whether it be a flood, a weather event, what have you. We're not sure what the federal government is doing to help us with that. I think the federal government is doing a great job of making sure that we're getting the money that we need to be able to pay for the expenses that we have incurred, we submit and get reimbursed through the federal government. Honestly, as I sit here, I can't tell you what expenses we may be able to utilize CARES grant money for versus the more traditional form of reimbursement. We're literally, as we speak, in the process of trying to sort that out, what are eligible expenses. So again, just from the standpoint of the state, I think that's a good question. From the staff's perspective, we felt it was worthwhile to put this in place just as sort of a backstop, if you will. If there are expenses we incur that we don't have other means to fund, this may open up another avenue. I can't sit here and tell you it will or that it won't, but we felt it was an option we should keep available. Thank you, Mr. Attorney. My comment, Mr. Chairman, is, you know, when we declared this initial emergency, we acted within a matter of days. It didn't take us weeks to declare it. So at this point, my understanding is that we haven't spent the first 50% of the CARES money or anywhere close to that amount of money. It would take quite a great expenditure in a short period of time for us to have used up that money before we would need additional funds from the government. I tend to agree with Supervisor Graber and Supervisor Dunn that it may not be necessary today to be in the state, but if we are in a situation a month from now or two weeks from now, this Board has always been quick to act, and I believe Mr. Tierney has been excellent in bringing to our attention the need for these types of things. So I would tend to err on the side of saying that we remove the emergency because I don't see any need for it at this point. And I do think it sends a message to certain politicians, whether they're at the state level or the federal level, that they shouldn't use opportunities like this so-called emergency to do anything. I think it sends a message to certain politicians, whether they're at the state level or the federal level, that they shouldn't use opportunities like this so-called emergencies to squander the taxpayers' money, our children's inheritance, and our grandchildren's inheritance, simply because we say that there's an emergency that doesn't seem to really have emergence at the point. So I would tend to support the motion. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? All right. The motion is to not extend. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Fisher? No. Chair votes no. Motion carries. We will not renew. All right. That will bring us to Board of Supervisors' comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman? Supervisor McCarthy? Just I want to keep it brief because I know we want to get through this meeting as efficiently as possible. But there's been something that's been on my mind for several weeks now because of the pandemic. And I think just off the discussion we just had, there's a very short piece that was written by C.S. Lewis, a famous English author, during the time when the atomic bomb had first come on the scene. I just want to share that real quick with the folks out in Frederick County. I've changed some of the words, obviously, from atomic bomb to virus, but I think it's pertinent to today. In one way, we think a great deal too much about coronavirus. And it's certainly true. But from my perspective, a lot of the work in the workhouse has not even gotten started yet. But, as you can scatter your zajani red lights into the darkness, it shows that perhaps this crisis will highlight at least some of the things we need to consider at all times. We know we can't leave главное loans out in the open. the virus was discovered, and quite a high percentage of us were going to die in unpleasant ways. We had indeed one very great advantage over our ancestors, anesthetics, vaccines, and antivirals. It is perfectly ridiculous to go on whimpering and drawing long faces because the scientists have added one more chance of a painful and premature death to a world which already bristled with such chances and in which the death itself was not a chance at all but a certainty. This is the first point to be made, and the first action to be taken is to pull ourselves together. If we are all going to be destroyed by a virus, let that virus, when it comes, find us doing sensible and human things, praying, working, teaching, reading, listening to music, bathing the children, playing sports, chatting with our friends over a pint of beer, not huddled together like frightened sheep and thinking about viruses. They may break our bodies. A microbe can do that, but they need not dominate our minds. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Any other comments? Anyone? Mr. Chairman, I just have one. With regard to the intersection at Old Charlestown Road and Martinsburg Pike, the developer has advised the Transportation Director as of this week that surface improvements will begin the week of June the 15th, and that has been coordinated with Miss Utility. So I just want to make the folks out on that end of the county aware that that will hopefully, weather permitting, start next week. Thank you. Other comments? Anyone? All right. Thank you. That'll bring us to committee appointments. Community Policy and Management Team. How would the Board like to handle that? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve Dawn C. Robbins as the parent representative for the Community Policy Management Team. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Fischer? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dime? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Development Impact Model Oversight Committee. It is time to repopulate that committee. There are recommendations in our agenda. How would the Board like to handle this? Move for approval, Mr. Chairman. Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. No. Supervisor McCarthy? Thank you, sir. All right. So we'll reappoint those folks. Frederick Winchester Service Authority, Wellington Jones, after 46 years of dedicated and distinguished service to Frederick County, does not wish to continue to serve. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. We have an application from Gary Oates for that position. And then the other potential appointment is Mr. Wilkins, and he is a joint appointment with the City of Winchester. So that would go from us to Winchester. How would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I would move that we appoint Mr. Oates and . . . Okay. Thank you, sir. Mr. Wilkins to serve. The motion is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll reappoint those two folks and send our recommendation to the city for their consideration. That will bring us to proposed amendment to the physical year 2021 budget. Supervisor Dunn. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A month ago, we passed a budget and we expected to have approximately 4.8% of natural growth. With the items that have occurred in the last two months, I question whether that $4.8 million of natural growth will actually occur. It was for that reason that, looking at it from a financial viewpoint, I'm wondering what happens if we don't? If we don't meet the revenue extremes that we expect to have, then we're going to have to go into our either general fund, or someplace else to go and get those monies. By putting this $4.8 million reduction, it will give the county the same money that they have this current fiscal year, which will end June 30. It will give the schools the same money that they would have this current fiscal year. It simply withholds $4.8 million until the board fully knows that we will actually receive the revenues that we think we will receive. And so for that reason, Mr. Chairman, I move that the board withhold $4.8 million until such time as the Board of Supervisors makes the determination that the expected revenue will actually be received. Second. Motion and a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. I support this wholeheartedly. This was one of the concerns I brought up during the initial budget discussion. At that time, we were assured by the county staff that we could count on the money coming. Eight days later, it was decided that we would have to pay $4.8 million. It was decided that we may not have that money coming. So I think the county administrator wisely decided to hold back on some of the expenditures that might have been incurred had we moved forward full force with the budget that was passed. I think that that was a wise decision, and I think that this is in thinking with that, that we need to wait until we see what occurs. We have numbers that came from our finance department that shows that tax revenues from businesses in certain areas spiked during the pandemic shutdowns. Those are mainly in the areas of our grocery stores, our big box stores, which of course we all know, everyone ran to the grocery store and bought as much as they could, so that's a natural and obvious thing to see happen. Same thing with the big box stores. When you're stuck at home and you see all the stuff in your house that's been broken and you've been meaning to fix for years and years, and now you suddenly have a bunch of time, you're gonna head down to the local big box store and start buying the stuff you need to fix those things. So I do think that the increase that we saw in those revenues are not going to be sustained, because, you know, we're not gonna be able to get those things back. We're not gonna be able to get those things back. We're not gonna be able to get those things back. We're not gonna be able to get those things back. Because once people start getting back to work, they'll be shopping less at Lowe's and fixing the stuff around the house, and it'll get back to normal. I'm not sure that people will continue to hoard and buy more food than they need or more toilet paper than they need. So I am concerned that with revenues down in our restaurant and hospitality sector, with the raised numbers in the big box stores and the grocery stores probably getting back to normal, and we're seeing quite a lot of news coming out right now with spikes in people not paying rent or mortgages. And we're seeing quite a lot of news coming out right now with the new budget. And I think that's a big part of the reason why we're seeing that. And I think that's a big part of the reason why we're seeing that. And I think that's a big part of the reason why we're seeing that. And I think that's a big part of the reason why we're seeing that. And I think that's a big part of the reason why we're seeing that. That is, we have the money to spend additional, so I support the motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further discussion. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir, Bob Buch. I kind of agree. We just talked about the legislative process, that we can come back to it at any time and make those decisions. And I feel the same way about this. Thank you for giving me the time to study over this. I feel like we can continue to build We can make these decisions. We don't have to do it here today. We don't have to make a shot right now. We can keep an eye on this as we have, and when the time is appropriate, if that occurs, then we can make this decision that we're talking about right now at that time, and this board has done that before. So I don't see the need to do this immediately at this point. Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry? Supervisor Che. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've spoken with my school board representative from Back Creek regarding this matter, and I asked him what he would rather see as a school board member, and I can't speak for the rest of the school board members other than my own. However, his input and thought was he would rather go into the school year knowing what money he may have to cut rather than get halfway through a year and then have to cut $2 million or $3 million on programs they've already started. I think it's only wise. I think it's only wise that we give direction to our staff on what their budget is likely to look at. I think if you go to cut, a 25% cut halfway through the year hurts far greater and has more impacts on staff than a 25% impact does now because you would be cutting a greater amount of money over a shorter period of time when the cut is put in place. I think it is prudent that we move forward with what Supervisor Dunn has presented simply because it's not totally taken off. It's not totally taken off of the table, but it is simply in a holding pattern until we see what money comes in. It's a simple thing that I was taught at five years old. Don't spend money that you don't have. Thank you very much. Supervisor Dunn. The reason I think that this needs to be done now, and I'll address the comments that Mr. Wells did, was that in July we have to make a commitment to the schools, and right now the split is 57 to 43. So if the schools get that money, we can't get that money. We can't get that money. We can't get that money. We can't come back to them three, four, five months from now and say, schools, please give us back. So right now the withholding would be approximately $2 million on the county side. The administrators already made such a withholding of about $2.8 million. Heard nothing from the school side. So if we go and pass this, if we do not pass this, then the schools get the money, and if we do not get the revenue, then the board and the county is holding the, the differential. So for that reason, my thought process was to withhold until we knew that we would have the money. And when we know we have the money, we can go and appropriate. But if we do not get the money, then not only this board, but I would say the schools are also going to have to make some adjustments, especially in the fact that you have taxpayers, some of whom are out of work, who just a month ago were paying real estate taxes. And so I think it's just a situation where we work together with the school board, and if they're willing to give us back the money, fine. But right now, if we give it to them, it's theirs. So that's the reason, that's my thought process behind doing it now versus doing it at a future point in time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Further discussion, anyone? The motion is to delay disbursement of $4.8 million until the board decides to release it. Are we ready? Supervisor Fisher. No. No. Supervisor McCarthy. Yes. Supervisor Slaughter. No. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Thank you. Chair votes no. Motion fails. All right. Committee business. Shawnee Land Sanitary. Supreme Board. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Is Secretary you up for the vice president's public comment? Well, thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Chair votes yes. Mr. Chairman, would you. No vote, no momentum approval. Mr. Chairman. All right. That doesn't mean any boundaries yourselves. You're going to vote well. Yeah? No voting laws, then? ondan bid is adopted. There was no rulingador, but President Wilson, is that right? Mr. Chairman, I have the right developing government to decide what aa supportive those who make it in aolt will four multiple state states. When the felony high schoolkill again below 8ks? Thank you, pieces of Vick. Yeah, thank you. We have a growing community. This community has grown 30,000 people, 50% since the year 2000. The schools have said that they have additional needs and expenditures, and we have additional costs associated with that. The purpose for the meeting would be to go and have a discussion, the seven board members with the seven school board members, in a face-to-face conversation for a couple of hours to walk through what our concerns are, how we meet them, et cetera. This will be a work session. People are going to be talking as candidly as they want. There's going to be no votes, but it would give us an opportunity just to convey that. I'd like to see if this could occur in July or August or early September, whatever works out for people's schedules. I know people have to take vacations in July and August, so I'm looking for something that would be convenient for all parties. But I think it's really important, before we begin the budget session, just to last some concerns. A month ago, I laid out, in our budget situation, some thoughts and proposals. I'd like to share those with the school board. I'd like to get feedback from all of you, as well as from the school board, and to hear what the school board's perspective has been as well. I've attended two September-October school board sessions, but as an observer, I can't speak. This will give us an opportunity to talk, to interact, and I think that would be helpful. So if there's a consensus, I'd like to see if there's an agreement to do that. If there's not a consensus, then I'm going to make a motion to do that. Mr. Chairman, do you want to make a motion, or you're just looking for the... I believe it's all underway. I believe staff is developing potential dates to bring back to us. I don't... I'm just asking your preference. I don't... I'm impartial on... I just want to get a joint meeting between our board and the school board. How we get there is immaterial to me. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I believe I heard a motion. I'm going to second Blaine's... Supervisor Dunn's motion. I'd like for you to restate it. For the record. Okay. So that Ms. Phillips can have it accurately, please. Just the simple... Move to schedule a joint work session. I move that the Board of Supervisors and the school board will have a joint work session meeting in July, August, or early September 2002 to work on areas of mutual interest. Okay. And second? I have a second, Matt. Okay. Is there any discussion? The only thing I would say, we're... We're sending out an invitation to the school board to meet with the Board of Supervisors. Yes. So... We're asking them... We can vote on it. It doesn't mean it's going to happen. So... This is a... Okay. I mean, I'm in favor of it. This is an invitation. This is an invitation. Okay. Let's take a motion, please, in the discussion. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman? Supervisor Graver. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have had dialogue on May the 27th. I met with the chairman of the schools, which is Mr. Foreman, as well as my representative from Back Creek, Mr. Monk. We had very constructive conversation. What I have found is there have been some in school administration who have made promises to this board and yet have not followed through on them. One of those promises have been a line item budget after they received the money, the funding for the fiscal year. They have received the money as far as received the budget, what they will be getting, the allotment numbers from us, and yet has still failed to produce a line item budget so that we can see where the money is proposed. We have a lot of money that is not proposed to be spent. Both of the school board members that I spoke with spoke in favor of being open and transparent. I believe part of that open and transparency includes being able to have good, hard questions asked back and forth from each board, as Supervisor Dunn has suggested, and getting some answers directly from the folks who are in charge. I believe it would be a very productive meeting if we were able to do so. Thank you. I'm confident that we can accomplish it. Any further discussion? Anyone? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll ask staff to contact the school system and continue work on a potential schedule. All right. That will bring us to the Shawnee Land Sanitary District budget for fiscal year 2021. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I had the opportunity to attend all of the meetings. I had the opportunity to attend all of the meetings at the Shawnee Land Meeting House with the residents there. And there's been some very lively and good discussion. A lot of what you're seeing in front of you is obviously the original proposal. The reason it was the original proposal is because we were so late in the process. There would really be some difficulties in making many changes at the extent or time frame in which we were found to be looking at this budget here in May. The advisory board has put measures in place in which they would try to measure the cost of the project. will be looking at this budget significantly sooner in the coming year, and I believe we'll have significant positive feedback from them moving forward. So I would like to make a motion to accept the proposed Shawnee Land budget as it is presented. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. We've received some comments from constituents in Shawnee Land that were concerned about the length of the process, that they felt it was too short of a process in order to comment on this. I would just point out that this process has been going on now for the better part of a year. The Public Works Committee, we've actually voted on this now three times, the same budget proposal three times in its past. I think it's a very good proposal. I think there's been plenty of open discussion about it. I appreciate all the work that the Public Works Committee has done, and I support the budget proposal. Thank you, sir. Any other discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. For legal purposes, is the motion a motion to approve the budget and to appropriate the funds? Thank you, Mr. Williams. Yes, that is the motion. I apologize. Thank you. Second, concur. I still concur, yeah. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Williams. All right, any further discussion? Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Flauter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dine? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. All right. That will bring us to the public hearing ordinance regarding community continuity of operations of Frederick County government. Opposed extension of emergency ordinance? We are not doing. That is different, though. Other than the one we pulled off consent? Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. This is ordinance change. Mr. Chairman, this is the one to allow county boards and commissions to conduct remote meetings through, I think it's October 22nd or 7th. I'm sorry, I couldn't make that up. The ordinance to permit committees, county boards and committees to allow remote participation through, I believe the date is October 27th. Okay. And we need. Related to, it was premised on the COVID situation. It's certainly obviously the board's prerogative whether it wishes to continue this allowance. And we're proposing to extend it to the end of the year? October 27th. October 27th. I think that's the date that's in there. October 7th. October 7th, actually. October 7th. My apologies. The code limits it to six months unless the board readopts it at that time. Got it. Okay. All right. So this is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No, Mr. Chairman. Did we receive any comments? No, sir. All right. Hearing that, we'll close the public hearing portion of the discussion. How would the board like to handle this request? Yes, sir. I would move that we adopt the request. Okay. Motion is to approve. Sir, second. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor McCarthy. Just a question for the county attorney. Is this ordinance at all predicated on there being a state of emergency declared in the county in order for these provisions to apply? It seems to me that there's language in the ordinance that states that discussions must be related to a state of emergency in some circumstances. If there's less than a quorum available, does that? That, well, there's two parts. There's two parts. There's two parts to that. One is it does contain a reference to the county's declaration of emergency. It just simply says the county has declared. The county did previously declare. The board opted not to extend that tonight. This board could certainly, if it chose, strike that language if it wants. The allowance for participating in meetings to address the emergency is actually not. A premise of. Well, it's mentioned in this ordinance, but that allowance exists under state law regardless. And that was really the ordinance's reference to it was to note that the ordinance does not affect a committee's ability to do so if they are addressing the emergency. But we wouldn't have to have a declared emergency to predicate the ability to rely on this ordinance. For having remote meetings and otherwise. I don't think so. I mean, I think that the board can certainly offer a viable explanation for this ordinance to address concerns individuals may have without the board having necessarily adopted a full-scale emergency. Thank you, Mr. Williams. Thank you, Chairman. All right. Further discussion, anyone? Yeah, Mr. Chair. Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. As I made this motion, I just want to clarify my thought process behind this. I think that the governor's emergency declaration needs to end. But for those people that are concerned, it allows those people on committees, on boards, on commissions that do have a concern to be able to participate remotely. So for that reason, I made this motion so that those that have a concern are able to participate remotely. They will still have a vote without having to physically be there. Further discussion? Anyone? All right. Supervisor Graver. No. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McArthur. Aye. Supervisor Fisher. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. We'll extend to October the 7th. Okay. We have a public hearing. Ordinance amendments to Frederick County Code. Mr. Klein. Aye. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. You all, this should be relatively fresh in your minds. This is a proposed amendment to the zoning ordinance and the adopted development review fee schedule to reduce the fee for a conditional use permit for commercial telecommunication facilities. The purpose of this reduction in the fees is to encourage commercial telecommunication facilities to locate in those underserved areas of the county, in particular rural areas west of Interstate 81. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You all will also recall then in December of 2019, this board adopted the two track process for the review and approval of telecommunication facilities that includes a by right tower up to 50 feet in height, which would be approved administratively by the planning and development staff and our standard process projects, which are for towers greater than 50 feet in height, which would continue to require a conditional use permit subject to a public hearing by the planning commission of board of supervisors. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. CUP fees for these types of uses were identified as a potential barrier to service providers and individuals applying for a telecommunication facility permit. The board at that time further directed staff to reevaluate the fees with the intention of reducing the fee to reduce that barrier to the application. The Development Review and Regulations Committee, or DRRC, discussed this item on February 27. And at that time, staff made a proposal that for towers greater than 50 feet in height, $750 would be the fee consistent with the other CUP uses already listed in our Development Review fee schedule. During their discussion, the Development Review and Regulations Committee recommended a tiered fee structure based on tower height, and that towers 50 feet in height or greater and less than 100 feet in height, $1,500 would be the fee. And for towers... For towers greater than 100 feet in height, $7,000, the current CUP fee, remain in place. Subsequent to that meeting, at your March 25 meeting, the board adopted a temporary code amendment, which expired on May 24, which changed the conditional use permit application fee from $7,000, which is the current fee, to $750. The Planning Commission discussed this item on May 6 and did not make any specific changes to the proposed tiered fee schedule. As proposed by the Committee. There was no consensus among the Planning Commission if a modified fee schedule with additional tiers differentiating between tower heights was an appropriate remedy. And the Planning Commission generally supported covering the cost, or the real cost, of an application to the county for processing and advertising CUPs for those types of facilities. The board discussed this item on May 27, and at that time, the board recommended that a fee of $750 be increased to $1,000. Subsequent to that meeting, at your March 25 meeting, the board adopted a temporary code amendment, which expired on May 6, which is the current fee, to $750. And by the end of the meeting, the board recommended that the fee for YITARS would not be advertised for the public hearing. The Commission Fine On applauder to YITARS in totally different terms. So, the board stated, at that time, that the fee should cover only those costs associated with advertising, signage, and notifying adjacent property owners as part of the application. The Commission Fine On Audit, in violation of 양is terms, was approved in April 2017, with few disagreements dismissed, and may continue to be in effectarf or granted contractual Remit. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on June 3, where no public comment was received on this Sam por Often, the Illinois Public Constitution最後 en pro de Acуда el orden de fac 일� Islamic Autoniciko y retrouver House cattle insidente en significa suyo Mayor Close histories inome Ordinance Amendment. where no public comment was received on this ordinance amendment. The Planning Commission reconsidered their tiered fee schedule, but they did not come to a consensus again. And the Planning Commission ultimately voted to recommend denial of the proposed $750 fee as advertised by the Board of Supervisors. So following a public hearing this evening, staff is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on this proposed ordinance amendment. And, of course, we are happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Questions of Mr. Klein, anyone? Supervisor McArthur. Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Klein, are there any identifiable or quantifiable costs to the county beyond the advertising and the notice provisions that we would typically assess as part of a CUP fee? The $750 fee is consistent with what the cost to advertising is to the county. Is there any direct correlation or any known correlation between the height of a tower and the cost associated to the county with regard to those things? I'm not aware of such a correlation. Thank you, sir. Another discussion? Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Tierney, sorry, I apologize. I've been asked the question on decommissioning of those towers. And so from what I understand, you can confirm that if the tower goes up, the landowner who gets a CUP would be responsible. Is that correct? They would be responsible for the removal of that tower. Under the standard process projects, section four, item C, it states that any facility or structure permitted by the section that is not operated or used for a continuous period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned and the owner of such a facility or structure shall remove that facility within 90 days of receipt of notice from the planning department. If the facility is not removed within the 90-day period, the county may remove the facility and a lien would be placed on that property to recover those expenses to the county. Therefore, Mr. Klein, if this were approved or any CUP were approved, it would be wise for the landowner to have a conversation with the people that put up the tower saying that at some point in the future, there's going to be a cost. And therefore, the landowner might want to say to the person putting up the tower, make certain that you have the money to pay me if that goes down. By the same token, the person that puts up the tower may want to go to an AT&T or Verizon, et cetera, to say, if this tower comes down, you're profiting AT&T, you might have to do that. So if they work together, they're going to be able to do that. So if they work together, they're going to be able to do that. If they work together, when the tower first goes up, there'd be no cost to the taxpayer for the decommissioning. Is that correct? In theory, that's how it would work, yes. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further questions, anyone? Supervisor Slaughter. Mr. Klein, if we had an instance like the tower that was being requested at Sherando Park and the multiple advertisements and so forth, that would come under a different process. Would that be the same process other than what you're recommending here? Or would it be the same and would the $750 cover the cost? So the fee for $750 covers the advertising for the public hearings for the board and the planning commission. If the applicant chooses to defer or delay a public hearing where they make the request to the planning commission, the board of supervisors, they cover the cost of re-advertising. If, for example, the planning commission, tables an item for 30 or 60 days to further consider it and then we re-advertise, that cost would be burdened onto the county. So it wouldn't necessarily be, there would not necessarily be a correlation to the height of the tower. If we're looking at a tower that's, say, 199 feet, the cost, you're saying the $750 would still cover the cost? There's no correlation between cost and tower height as our current advertising, our current review and processing and advertising is concerned. Other questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? All right. Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No, Mr. Chairman. And did we receive any comments? No, sir. Thank you. We'll close the public hearing process. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I would move. Mr. McArthur. I would move. For approval of the amended ordinance for $750 CUP fee for application for towers. Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Hearing none. Supervisor Fisher? I do have one question. Is that up to 50 feet? That's up to any height. That's what I was thinking. The way it's written. That's correct. Mr. Chairman, this is for over 50 feet. The under 50 feet are covered by a separate section of the ordinance and it's a hundred That's what I meant to say. That's what I thought. I just wanted to clarify that. So we're talking 51 feet up or 50 feet, one inch on up. I'll vote aye. Okay. All right. So we'll go back. We had a motion and a second and I believe discussion is over. Finished? Yes. What? I was voting aye. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Okay. I just wanted to ensure that we had a motion and a second. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So we're going to go back. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. No, that's okay. We just wanted to be clear that we were there. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Weil? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. That, Mr. Cline, will bring us to an ordinance amendment to chapter 165, Conditional Use Permits. This actually is for zoning enforcement violation of penalties. I'm sorry. Ten B. Yes, sir. penalties. This is an amendment to enact stricter penalties for zoning violations. Presently the county enforces our zoning ordinance through the misdemeanor process but state law also would permit the use of civil penalties to remedy zoning violations. If the county were to adopt civil penalties for specified violations, state law would require the county pursue civil penalties for those violations up to an accumulated fine limit of $5,000 before pursuing the violations through the misdemeanor process. The misdemeanor process authorized to localities through the Code of Virginia permits fines of a thousand dollars, fifteen hundred, and two thousand dollars for each successive ten day period of non-compliance with an initial court directive to remedy a violation following an initial fine of a thousand dollars for a violation and a fine of two thousand dollars for every ten day period of non-compliance thereafter. The current county code does not reflect the above. Maximum misdemeanor fines enabled to the locality by the General Assembly. If the objective for revisions to the zoning ordinance is to maximize fines in such a way as to create a disincentive for violations, specifically repeat violations, proceeding sooner to the one thousand, fifteen hundred, and two thousand dollar fines for the subsequent ten day periods, a violation remains the most effective approach. The development review and regulations committee discussed this item on February the 27th and mineral is supported increasing the fees under the current misdemeanor process as enabled by the Code of Virginia and the item was forwarded to the Planning Commission for discussion. The Planning Commission discussed the item on May 6th and agreed with the committee's recommendation to increase the fees the maximum penalty permitted under the code of Virginia. The board discusses on may twenty seventh and directed staff to advertise it for public hearing. The Planning Commission held a public on June 3rd where no public comments were received and the Planning Commission unanimously recommended approval of the proposed ordinance amendment. Following a public hearing, staff is seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors on this proposed ordinance amendment. Again, you're considering an ordinance amendment to increase the maximum to the maximum fine limit under the current misdemeanor process. Staff is happy to answer any questions that you have regarding this item. Thank you. Yes sir. I have no questions but I think it's high time that we move in this direction. I concur. I think it's a we have great folks out there who do wonderful things when they get the CUPs and I congratulate them for following the rules and regulations and we have a group of people who just can't seem to do that and until we start enforcing that and making that punishment effective, we're going to continue to have problems so I think we need to move ahead on this immediately. Questions of Mr. Klein? Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you Mr. Chairman. I have another question for the County Attorney. Is this a forward-looking ordinance or is this something where if there's an existing pre-existing violation that this would also apply to a pre-existing violation? So in other words, I think you understand the question. Yeah. Yes it would well frankly we don't have so many purposes, but we haven't really decided on just what the permissiblecamera circumstances that will occur. And we have certain criteria sets that we have expressed in the bill. So if COVID-19 TotalityQué would only apply as to the filing date of the criminal charges I don't view it is applying to existing notices of violation and right now I think we only have about five or six zoning violation cases pending if that. Actually I may have overstated that because I think a couple of those violation cases are only building code cases. But yes, it may not, what the answers may not matter, but I think the�rchadythefr.com a that has not yet been filed in court. Anyone who has an existing violation that no notice has been filed should probably remediate quickly. Otherwise, this would apply to them if it's passed. Thank you. Other questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No, Mr. Chairman, and we did not receive any comments via the website. Thank you. Hearing that, we'll close the public hearing portion of the discussion. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I move for adoption of the ordinance amended. Motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. No planning commission, any board liaison reports? Hearing none, citizen comments. Did anyone sign up? No, sir. All right. Board of... Sorry? Citizen comments? Yes, sir. On any subject? Yes. Yes. Okay. All right. So... So... So... So... So... So... So... So... So... So... Welcome, Sir. If we could have your name and magisterial district, please, Sir. My name is Lauderdale McFort. And I'm a... I'm a man with... I'm a man with a degree in law, I have a certificate as I speak, I'm a resident of the Gainesboro District. I've been a resident here in the county since 2001 following retirement from federal government service. And before that, I had spent a fair number of years overseas. So I'm a little still learning my way around Virginia law. About when we purchased our house, we were delighted with it. I was delighted that my wife had finally found one she liked. So we made a bid that night, and it was accepted. The one thing I didn't think about at the time was the road was unpaved. In fact, we were at the intersection of two unpaved roads. And I had grown up in another state where we had unpaved roads. And then in the, I will say the late 50s, they moved toward the equivalent of tar and ships. In that state, it was tar and pea gravel. But it was a cheap way of putting a hard surface on a road. And I'm very fond of it. Unfortunately, we first arranged or organized a petition back in somewhere around 2004, 2005, to have the road. And it was paved under the rural and rustic roads. And there was a lot of back and forth between having it approved and then having it unfun... I mean, sorry, it was never on a scheduled thing. And something always seemed to come up. At this point, it has been approved for fiscal year 2020. Now, I'm well aware of that quarantine means loss of revenue. And that there may have to be shifts in budgets. But some approved things may not be carried out. But about a month or so ago, I started agitating. For somebody to at least look at the issue. The money has been approved and appropriated, as I understand. And so the question then is, will the work be done before the end of the fiscal year? I understand Mr. Tierney is here. Is that? Okay. Mr. Tierney and I and Mr. Bishop have had an exchange of interest. And I'm very proud of that. And I'm very proud of that. And I'm very proud of that. And I'm very proud of that. And I'm very proud of that. And I'm very proud of that. And I'm very proud of that. And I'm very proud of that. And I'm very proud of that. And I'm very proud of that. And I'm very proud of that. And I'm very proud of that. And both by telephone and by e-mail. So Mr. Tierney and Mr. Bishop know where I stand on it, that I'm very strongly in favor of getting the work done. If it can't be, you know, if it can be done, and it appears that it can be done, I think we should be advised as soon as possible. There was actually a little bit of a question as to whether the fiscal year was going to end in June or whether it was going to end in December. And I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. and the end of September, as is the case with the federal government and, as I understand, the state government. And since this is largely going to be state funds, I was hoping that it would be approved and the fiscal year would be until September 30th. If it was going to be until the end of June, I felt we should get cracking. And that's mainly what I have to say. This has been a thorny issue for a number of people for 30-odd years. As I said, I'm at the junction of two unpaved roads, Old Baltimore and Babs Mountain. And at the time that the house was built, I think there were a total of five houses on it, on that road. Old Baltimore reportedly goes back to the French and Indian War. At least... At least that's local war. And I have to scratch my head at the idea. Sorry, coming from another state of a road that is, what, 300, sorry, 270 years old at this point and still unpaved. Old Baltimore is on schedule for next year. And I've said this before. If I had been agitated... If I had been agitated for 40 years to have my road paved and somebody, some Johnny-come-lately came in and he'd only been here 10 years and he gets his road paved first, I would be heartily annoyed. So as I say, this has been a thorny issue. There's been a lot of discussion. And I try to see all the sides of an issue. But I did... I believe and continue to believe that there should be some organization of looking at the budgeting process and the funding process and letting us know what will and won't be done. That's all I have to say. Thank you very much, sir. It sounds like you have the latest information that we're aware of. That's what they tell me. It's slightly different from the information that I... that I got last month. I'm not surprised. There are a couple of caveats in there, which I was expecting. Yes. But they are state and federal funds. There are no local monies involved. Right. Okay, then. Yes, sir. So you guys... We appreciate your comments and good luck. Yeah, well, thank you. I feel like something's going to happen for you soon. Okay. And I'll accept that with a hearty handclasp. Yes, sir. Understood. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Have a great evening. Thank you. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I realize this is a bit out of order, but if you'd permit me... I'd be happy to. I'm reading an email from Mr. Bishop from this afternoon. He's been in contact with Mr. Carter, Ed Carter. Their expectation is the road should be paved in the August-September timeframe, so that, barring unforeseen changes, the road should be paved this summer. Are you able to hear, sir? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Okay. Sounds like good news. Yes, sir. Thank you. Have a good evening, sir. All right. Any further comments from anyone? Board of Supervisors' comments, are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'm not sure which one I heard first, so Supervisor Dunn. Thank you. So, Mr. Chairman, I have two comments. One is that there was a very unfortunate death in Minneapolis. And those that protested here, I want to commend for having a sane, thoughtful, civil protest. You made your point very, very well. There was no rioting. There was no looting. There was respect. And so, that type of civil protest needs to go across the country. So, for those that were in that Winchester protest, a job well done. Supervisor McCarthy. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I have one other comment. I'm sorry. That's fine. My second comment is to the Governor. Governor Northam, yesterday you made an executive order to continue this lockdown in the state. It needs to stop. Why does it need to stop? One is the right of assembly. Your current order says that you can have no more than 50 people in a room. We're in a political situation. All of us are politicians. You're a politician. But we're also all people. We all take risk as we go along. Our daily lives are a risk. We all have to be careful about our daily lives. In 1957, 1958, there were over 100,000 people that died of a flu. In 1968, 69, the same, more than 100,000 people died. The COVID situation is a significant situation. But the purpose was to go and flatten the curve. Not get a vaccine. Not make certain there were no deaths. But try to flatten the curve so that hospitals will be able to take care of those that were ill. Your petition is infringing. Your petition is infringing upon my right to assemble. Your petition is infringing upon my right to have a meeting with my constituents, more than 50, to say, this is who I am, what I want to do, and what you want to do. Your petition is going and preventing me from going to a church indoors. That is not something you should determine. Your petition is harming businesses that are trying to survive. You're being paid by public funds. Your staff is being paid by public funds. But your decisions are having a detrimental effect on private industry, in real estate, and in the public sector. Thank you. monitcarware.org miesdmi respectful the hard-working men who sacrifice so much for their families and I'll have you on my prayers this Father's Day. So to all of you on the board who's a father and all of you in Frederick County who's a father, happy Father's Day. Sir, further comments anyone? Vice Chairman Wells. Chairman, I move we adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor aye. Aye. Opposed no. Thank you. We'll stand adjourned. Thank you. Thank you.
