Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2020-08-12
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=58
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Vice Chairman Weil. Please stand and face the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. All right. That will bring us to adoption of the agenda. Are there any proposed changes? Entertain a motion. So moved, Mr. Chairman. Motion to adopt the agenda is presented. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the agenda as presented. Citizen comments. This is the opportunity for citizen comments on any item, agenda items that are not subject to public hearing. Ms. Phil. Alan Morrison. I would ask you to come forward to the microphone, share your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please, sir. Welcome. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the board, thank you for this opportunity. My name is Alan Morrison. I'm from the Gainesboro district. And I'm speaking in favor of the resolution on the supervisor's agendas to not pass any exercise additional gun laws in Frederick County. So this year the Virginia General Assembly granted localities the ability to pass additional gun laws, only gun laws, in section 15-2-915 . In addition to all existing state laws, and this would create a patchwork of gun laws throughout the Commonwealth, it would be nearly impossible for any law-abiding citizen to navigate. This was a designed effort that originated from the Bloomberg backed Everytown USA for gun safety. It's an important one. It's intended to put gun regulations in areas that is not legally law. This was to dismantle and empty out any state pre-exemption laws that would provide uniformity in our state as to gun laws. This new law allows every locality to pass their own regulations with the effect of law that creates a maze of laws that would imperil citizens every time they cross the arbitrary Jewish, the Jewish, or the Jewish line to go to work, to shop, to visit or to travel. It would force citizens to comply with a mix of whatever firearm or ammunition regulations any local government would choose that would be politically expedient to their purposes. Now many of the state laws that were passed this last session have been expressly odious to me and a majority of Virginians. But we will remain law-abiding, even though we strongly disagree. A particular target has been guns, and since they were not able to pass all the gun laws they desired, they're using this as a backdoor attempt, making it practically impossible to avoid unlawful gun ownership by those who are normally lawful gun owners. It prevents you from owning, to transport, to buy guns or ammunition, and this is a hodgepodge of laws. This proposed regulation on the agenda tonight to not adopt the restrictive gun laws should be approved in order that the citizens of Frederick County may engage in a fair and safe environment, and also to support a more universal and equitable playing field that would make just simply obeying the law simple. As of last night, 21 localities have already passed similar resolutions, and I would implore each of you to give it full consideration tonight and put Frederick County in that list. Thank you. Thank you, sir. John Ferraro. Please hold your applause. It makes it to everyone hard to hear. John Ferraro. Welcome, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, members of the board. My name is John Ferraro. I am in the Back Creek District. I am the head of the National Security Service. I am the head of the National Security Service. I am the head of the National Security Service. I am the head of the National Security Service. I am the head of our district's federal law enforcement agency, and I came to ask you all to support no-gun-control laws. The reason I am asking this is because our justices and elected officials at the state and federal levels are out of control and are blatantly disrespecting and disregarding our rights. On July 24, the U.S. Supreme Court elected to not hear a case of a cavalry chapel in Nevada, and it disregarded their First Amendment rights to not only peacefully assemble, but peacefully assemble but freedom of religion. Our Second Amendment rights are constantly under attack right here from our own governor and I'm asking you all to vote with the constituents here in the county that we do not have to abide by these ridiculous laws and that you uphold your oath to protect our rights. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Bill Wiley. Welcome, sir. Chairman, members of supervisors, thank you for letting me be here this evening. Just real quick say thank you and appreciate the opportunity to speak tonight. I want to say thank you to Supervisor Dunn, Supervisor McCarthy for putting this forward, for your leadership on the no local gun control resolution. Just real quick I want to say at no level of government, is any form of gun control ever acceptable. It's just that simple. I strongly encourage this board to pass this resolution. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Sean Pugh. Welcome, sir. My name is Sean Pugh and I'm from the Redbud District. You know, here we are once again. You know, I do tree work and I'm out there in that sun all day long and I'm out there in the sun all day long and I'm out there in the sun all day long and I'm out there in the sun all day long and I'm out there in the sun all day long and I'm out there in the sun all day long and I should be home wrestling. But no, I got to come up here and try to protect my rights because somebody might try to step on them. These are God given inalienable rights that I have. I'm tired of seeing my wife sitting there crying because people are getting hurt out in these streets where we have these democratically controlled places that are being destroyed by people that have no regard for the law. And I'm asking you all to stand up and do what we, you know, we would suggest that you do and protect or help us protect our own rights because, you know, this keeps on, you know, you all might have a nice house you're living in, but if it keeps on, you probably won't have that either. But this agenda they're trying to push keeps coming. And it's a shame that we're sitting out here, good people, all of us, you know, we're not going to be able to do that. We're not going to be able to do that. We're not going to be able to do that. We're not going to be able to do that. We're not going to be able to do that. We're just trying to let go. I don't understand who this country is or some slave eles that go to work and come home and do our thing and help one another have to come in here or try to, or even to fathom having to worry about our rights being taken away from us. We don't deserve this, and we'd appreciate it if you voted against the law please. Thank you. Vice President Davis- Thank you, sir. Sisters Brown,pped Leftist trouvé,the film at the bottom of your screen Debbie Berg. Vice President Davis- Welcome. Michelle When you're.... Cott걸 Will. A position of회 on Debbie Berg, Back Creek District. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to address the 100-year anniversary this month of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution being passed, giving women the equal right to vote along with men. This historic event did not come without trials and tribulations over the 72 years' effort to secure this right. The story of women suffragists is one of courage, perseverance, and hope that continues to inspire women today. When the amendment was passed, suffragist Carrie Chapman Catt famously stated, women have suffered agony of soul, which you can never comprehend, that you and your daughters might inherit political freedom. That vote has been costly. Prize it. Today, women in Virginia compose 53% of all women's rights. We have all registered voters. Alongside of men, women have and now hold offices on our school board, board of supervisors, General Assembly, and Congress. On behalf of all women in Frederick County, born and unborn of all race and creed, I ask you to vote in favor of the resolution proposed by our local women's Republican club listed on your agenda tonight, recognizing the 100th anniversary of the 19th Amendment. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Theodore Theologis. Welcome, sir. Thank you for the opportunity. My name is Theodore Theologis, Stonewall District, and I'm here to comment on item 6J, the revised master plan for the old Charlestown Road Park. I believe Mr. DeHeaven and Mr. Terkel and I believe the county's attorney received a letter from my attorney yesterday. I apologize for the last minute of the letter. I only found out that this was coming up for vote on Monday, and unfortunately, the attorney representing me is on maternity leave. So I just wanted to, the letter did not, that you received did not lay out all the objections to the proposed plan, so I just wanted to make three points here. Specifically, the proffer that the plan is based upon is a binding document, and the proffer clearly and repeatedly only permits the county to build soccer fields and baseball fields. It does not provide for football fields, basketball courts, or futsal courts. Furthermore, the proffer provides for fields. Hard surface courts are not fields. So therefore, they're not allowed, according to the terms of the proffer. Second point is that the park boundaries in the exhibit C attached to the proffer, do not encompass a wooded area that the county is removing to place basketball courts and I believe futsal courts. There's a caveat in that exhibit that it is for illustration purposes only. However, it is a recorded document with the county, and someone needs to be able to rely on that recording document. So our position is that the part that is for illustration purposes, is the layout of the fields, not the expansion of the boundaries shown in that exhibit. The third point is that the proffer provides for a path connecting the park to the community. The stated purpose or what the parks and recreation said for that path is, is basically to connect, to provide access to the residents of the community to the park. I printed a few copies here, and I don't know if you would like to see them. This is the street where the entrance would be. It has a serious parking problem, and that is on a good day. The entrance to the park would go there. That street is a dead end street, was not designed for any type of traffic beyond traffic to those homes. That location of that entrance basically does not serve the needs of the community, because it makes the path inaccessible to three quarters of the community currently as it is, and completely inaccessible to the future development of the community. So that path is going there just because it has to go somewhere. There's no other reason for it. There are better locations that we proposed to the county, and the county hasn't considered. I apologize, I'll close real quickly. Just last point. In the last two years, 2018 and 2019, there were 12 homes that were sold on the streets impacted by the park. Between January of this year and now, there are 19 homes, three times as much, and the year is not over yet. So clearly, that affects residents who are leaving the area. So thank you. I apologize for running over. And I hope, my hope is that you will table the vote for the park for tonight, and allow the attorneys to work out the legalities of it. Thank you, sir. Brandon Angel. Welcome, sir. Good evening, City Council. First, I want to say thank you for passing the sanctuary status a couple months ago. Unfortunately, Winchester didn't pass it. I'm sure you are aware that red flag laws are already used in Winchester. Again, I'm against any kind of red flag laws that are in use. The laws that we already have are already infringements in my eyes, and many others here. Thank you. Obviously, today, I agree. It doesn't make sense to me how these gun laws will protect anyone. Richmond has riots now for weeks, and the majority, Democratic majority said, if we take guns, crime will go down. Obviously, that's not been the case, and there have been multiple deaths, and there are still shootings going on here in Winchester. The same side then said, police won't protect you. You don't need weapons. That side is now wanting to defund the police or abolish the police entirely. Minneapolis has completely abolished the police. They put out a statement to give in to whatever criminals want. To be prepared to give up purses, cell phones, or otherwise, how can we protect ourselves without Second Amendment in this situation? We need the police, including the ones here today. It makes no sense to me how they're passing so many of these laws. I urge you to please support the gun rights and those of us who wish to express our Second Amendment rights. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, we have no one else signed up, but I will remind you that we received two comments on the resolution in support of no gun laws. Those are at your seats this evening. They are. We have them. Thank you. Did anyone else come to speak on a subject on our agenda that is not subject to a public hearing? Anyone? Thank you. We'll close the public comment portion. There's another at the end of our meeting that is open to all comments. Consent agenda. How would the Board like to handle the consent agenda? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we approve the consent agenda, but table item number 6J until our county attorney has had an opportunity to look at those proffers. Great. So you've heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Fischer? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wilde? Aye. Supervisor Dine? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. All right. Deals with consent, and 6J is delayed. What are Supervisor's comments? Are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to thank everyone who came out to speak tonight, both for the women's movement, 19th Amendment, as well as the gun policy that is before us tonight. Many years ago, I took an oath, and I never have backed down from that oath. I believe that the Second Amendment or our constitutional rights, if we don't have that Second Amendment, we will never have any other rights because there will be no way to defend them. I appreciate you guys taking a stand, stepping forward, and supporting your community and supporting our rights as Americans. Thank you for coming. That's all, Mr. Chairman. Any other Board comments? Anyone? All right. We'll move on. County Officials Committee Appointments. Board of Equalization. How would the Board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, we have an application from Scott Strohsnyder. I would move that we appoint Mr. Strohsnyder to the Board of Equalization for a three-year term. The motion, is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. And a second. Any discussion? Anyone? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Scott Strohsnyder is appointed three-year term for the Board of Equalization. Conservation Easement Authority. We have three reappointments and a new appointment potential application for Mr. Phil Payne. How would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would move to reappoint the Board of Equalization. I would like to appoint the two reappointees and appoint Mr. Haynes to the authority. Thank you, sir. You've heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Motion carries. Item number three, Lord Fairfax Community College Board. How would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'd like to appoint Brandon Monk to the Lord Fairfax Community College Board to fulfill the unlawful requirements. I'd like to appoint Mr. Haynes to the Lord Fairfax Community College Board to fulfill the unfinished term of Jeff Boat. Second. And a second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Just to give a little background, Mr. Monk has served as a teacher and has worked in career and technical education his adult life. He currently serves on the school board and has been a strong advocate for career and technical education. While I believe Mary Beth is also a good candidate. I have concerns that there may be a conflict of interest should she be appointed to the board as she deals with career and technical education for the school board presently. It would be concerning possibly a conflict there if she is advocating for students and other things and also serving on the board at Lord Fairfax. I believe Mr. Monk would not have that conflict as she presently has and I think he has many of the credentials and qualifications that we are looking for with his work experience and current experience in agriculture. And other career and technical elements. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I have heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Monk is appointed to the Lord Fairfax Community College Board. Winchester Regional Airport, we have an application for a four-year term from Elizabeth Cazell. Mr. Chairman, if I could, I would like to move for appointment to the Winchester Regional Airport. Second. A motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We thank you. Ms. Cazell is appointed to the Winchester Regional Airport Authority. Resolution for the 100th anniversary of women's right to vote. Yes, sir. I brought this resolution to the board because I think it's important to note that the board has a lot of work to do. I think it's important to note that the board has a lot of work to do. I think it's important to note that the board has a lot of work to do. I brought this resolution and when this gets fixed, we'll fix it. I brought this resolution at the request of a local women's Republican group. Interestingly enough, I have some grandparents. Just to put this in perspective, in 1912 and 1916, I had a grandmother who was a Republican. I had a grandmother who was a Republican. I had a grandmother who was a Republican. I had a grandmother who was a Republican. And in 1916, I had a grandmother who under today's rules would have been more than able to vote in a Presidential election for either Mr. Wilson or Mr. Taft in 1912, and either Mr. Hughes or Mr. Wilson in 1916. She was a woman, she could not, her husband did. In 1920, she had the opportunity to vote. So, Mr. Chairman, women had made significant contributions to our country, but initially were not allowed to vote. The women's suffrage movement to secure the right to vote of women began in 1844, and to this day, has been a movement that continues to be a movement of women. and finally was successful with the passage of the 19th Amendment on August 26, 1920. Therefore, on behalf of the local Republican women's group, I hereby move that the Board of Supervisors recognize the 100th anniversary of the passage of the 19th Amendment giving women the right to vote. The resolution is as follows. Whereas an organized movement to enfranchise women began in July 1848 at a convention in Seneca Falls, New York, whereas through the efforts of brave and courageous women, referred to as suffragettes, who sacrificed family, their personal life, their personal finances for over 70 years to gain equal rights for women, especially the right to vote, whereas men and women of every race and creed supported the women's suffrage movement for women to gain the constitutional right of having a voice in making the laws of the land, whereas the women's suffrage movement led to the passage of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the United States in 1919, with the ratification of the last state necessary on August 26, 1920, whereas women today constitute a majority of voters in the nation and are running for office in higher numbers and more active in the election process than ever before in history. Now, therefore, be it resolved that the 100th anniversary of women giving, the 100th anniversary of women gaining the right to vote in the United States is recognized by the Frederick County Board of Supervisors and the impact of the 19th Amendment on women's suffrage movement. The impact of these historic accomplishments have on other citizens, and the impact these accomplishments have on citizen engagement and the civic life of the community, the state, and the nation, be it further resolved that August 2020 be declared Women's Suffrage Month in Frederick County. The motion is there. Second? Second. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We thank you, sir. HC is a resolution not regulate or prohibit otherwise legal purchase, possession, or transfer of firearms or ammunition. What is the board's pleasure? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. This is a regulation that the General Assembly has passed some laws that have given us a certain right, but I think we should not take that right. The laws that were passed by the General Assembly are wrong. I'll give you three examples. One, the red flag laws. You have a husband and wife and a couple of children. You have one of those children. The person is considered to be a danger. All the weapons in that home are removed, leaving a husband and wife defenseless. Or you take a person that's elderly, and she has a grandchild in the house, taking care of a grandchild. That grandchild, for whatever reason, makes a comment like, you know what, I just don't like Mr. Graber. Nothing personal. And say, you know what, that's a threat. So therefore, all weapons are removed. The red flag laws apply. So there's a better way to deal with mental illnesses, and that's to get doctorate. Doctors involved, et cetera. The other issue is universal background checks. And under current law, if I give a weapon to somebody else, or somebody else gives a weapon to me, that's a felony. The county does not need to have further laws that inhibit the constitutional right of Americans to keep and bear arms. So, Mr. Chairman, since the Governor and General Assembly passed laws this year to give counties the authority to restrict the constitutional right of law-abiding citizens while on certain government properties, denying citizens the rights guaranteed under the Second Amendment of the Constitution to defend themselves while in various parts of a county, and creating a patchwork of non-uniform laws across the localities of the Commonwealth that would criminalize actions in some counties that are perfectly legal in other counties, I hereby move that the Board of Supervisors pass a resolution stating that we will not pass any ordinance that restricts the right of law-abiding citizens to keep and bear arms to defend themselves, and to repeal all the restrictive gun legislation enacted this year by the General Assembly. The resolution shall state as follows. Whereas we, the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County, Virginia, affirm our commitment to uphold the constitutionally protected rights of all of our law-abiding citizens and law-abiding visitors to Frederick County, and whereas the Frederick County Board of Supervisors previously passed a resolution dated December 11, 2019, reaffirming our commitment to uphold and protect the right of our citizens to keep and bear arms, and whereas certain legislation has been passed by the Virginia General Assembly that allows localities to, by ordinance, ban otherwise lawfully possessed and transported firearms from certain public spaces, causing law-abiding citizens to be exposed to a patchwork of local ordinances as they travel throughout our Commonwealth, and whereas the Frederick County Board of Supervisors acknowledges the significant economic contribution made to our community, made to our community by tourists and visitors, and does not wish to discourage travel to Frederick County, and whereas the Frederick County wishes to welcome all law-abiding citizens who wish to live in, visit, or otherwise participate in the economy of our community, including those citizens and visitors who choose to legally carry a firearm for personal protection, and whereas the Frederick County Board of Supervisors does not wish to infringe on the rights of law-abiding citizens or visitors to Frederick County to keep and bear arms, whereas all of our citizens and visitors who wish to live in, visit, or otherwise participate in the economy of our community, including those citizens and visitors who wish to live in, visit, or otherwise participate in the economy of our community, we, the Frederick County Board of Supervisors, as the lesser magistrates of our Commonwealth, on behalf of the citizens of Frederick County, express our continued opposition to any law that would unconstitutionally restrict the natural rights of our law-abiding citizens and visitors to Frederick County to keep and bear arms. Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County that the Frederick County Board of Supervisors hereby declares that we shall not exercise any authority granted to us by Section 15.2, 1915E of the Code of Virginia to regulate or prohibit the otherwise legal purchase, possession, or transfer of firearms or ammunition. Furthermore, the Frederick County Board of Supervisors hereby declares that to create uniformity within the Commonwealth of Virginia, Section 15.2-915E of the Code of Virginia and all other restrictive gun legislation enacted this year should be immediately repealed. Chair Gensler. Chair Gensler. Second. Second. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, all this law does is endanger the lives of the law-abiding citizens of the Commonwealth. It doesn't stop the mass shootings. It doesn't stop the criminals who disobey the law from taking the lives of those of us who obey the law. Furthermore, it undermines the Second Amendment protections that would allow us to defend ourselves and our homes from criminal elements and from our government when it becomes overbearing. Therefore, we need to vote in favor of this resolution and make a guarantee to our citizens that we on this board will not enforce laws that would undermine the Second Amendment. I would mention, though, that this vote does not bind future boards. Therefore, in order to protect yourselves, you need to start talking to your state legislative members. Mr. Wiley is in the back. You might want to talk to him tonight. He's running for state legislature. Irina Khanan is also running for state legislature. Talk to Senator Vogel. Make your voices heard. Make it known that the expectation is that they take the steps necessary to truly protect your rights at the state level. We can do what we can here. We can pass a resolution promising to do what we can do. But it's up to you all to put the pressure on our state legislature to do the right thing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Any further discussion? Anyone? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Motion carries. Letter of support. Discussion of letter of support to task force. Opposed, options. Creation of a National Garden of American Heroes. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Grave. I ask for this to be brought forth to have a discussion here amongst the board. As you're well aware, we received a letter on the 23rd of July from the Department of Interior, subsequently from President Trump, asking for localities to look at creating a Heroes Garden to place monuments from areas in which they have been broken down. The executive order was enacted by the Secretary of State, enacted by President Trump on July the 3rd of this year. And he's looking for a place to put monuments such as the George Washington, Mr. Carver, Mr. Grant, Mr. Franklin, and many others that have been torn down from cities across the country. Some of the stipulations that he had desired was a place of natural beauty, which I felt we checked pretty comfortably, a place that already had a National Park Service presence, which we always also have in Bell Grove in Middletown. And then there was a request for a place of natural beauty, which was a desire to have support of the local government in that opportunity. I believe that Frederick County is an ideal place to have Heroes Garden for many reasons. First and foremost, we're 77 miles in Middletown from downtown D.C., so anyone who comes to look at the monuments and look at the museums in the district could have a very easy ride out here and see the many monuments that have been enacted to remember our history as a country. Secondly, we have a lot of history in Virginia. The biggest piece of history that I can point to is in 1784, the legislature of Virginia commissioned the very earliest statue that is known to have been erected, and that was of George Washington. I have already sent a letter to Mr. Small from the Department of Interior, as has the mayor of Middletown, also has sent a letter that should have been forwarded to you in your packet, requesting that we be strongly considered for this National Park. What I am asking this evening is for discussion and possibly direction to staff to send a letter on our behalf asking that we be considered for the National Heroes Garden here in Frederick County. I'll make that as a form of a motion. Thank you. Thank you. I would second it. Second. Is there any discussion? We'll task staff with that. Is that your goal? Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you. Any discussion? Anyone? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the motion carries. Get staff on that. Resolution concerning the filing of a conditional use permit application, utility scale. How would the Board like to handle that one? Chairman? Yes, sir. I would move for adoption of the resolution. Move for adoption. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Hearing none, motion carries. We'll forward a resolution. Committee business, let me go back, forgive me, but just as a reminder, we're looking for applications from the Redbud District and at large seats on the Social Services Board. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I did not hear you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I can't hear you. Sorry. I don't hear you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Okay. The next item we have is the thinning of the benefits and services board and the financial services board. If anyone is interested, we'd love to have you send an application informational sheet. Require board action. Items number one, two, and seven were approved on consent, and I would so move. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number three, the sheriff requested general fund supplemental appropriation. In the amount of $16,050, this amount represents traffic control reimbursements, no local funds required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Heard the motion. Second. Second. Any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number four, the sheriff requested general fund supplemental appropriation. In the amount of $13,756.06. $2,014.16 is pending receipt of funds. This amount represents reimbursements from the IRS for overtime and travel, no local funds required. And the committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. In the second, any discussion? Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number five, the director of elections requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $74,301. This amount represents CARES Act funding from the Department of Elections for expenses related to COVID-19 for the November 2020 federal elections only. In addition, a consensus to submit the certification to receive the funds is requested. The certification is due July 31st, 2020. No local funds required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. In the second, any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Carthy? Aye. Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number six, the director of election requested general fund supplemental appropriation. The motion carries. Item number five, the director of elections requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $74,301. This amount represents CARES Act funding for the November 2020 federal budget. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. In the second, any discussion? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Giddens? Aye. Second. Item number six, the director of election requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $94,577. This amount represents funds necessary to meet the anticipated increase of voters exercising no excuse early voting for November 2020 elections. Local funds are required. You did have a memorandum in your packet. A portion of these expenses may be eligible for the CARES Act funds, but until more action is taken, the full amount will be available to voters. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Item number six, the director of elections requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $74,301. This amount represents funds necessary to meet the anticipated increase in the amount of $74,577. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. In the second, any discussion? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Giddens? Aye. And this is for Ms. Slaughter. Is there any way we could wait until next month to vote on this until more direction may come available, or is this something that we need to move forward to make the election happen? Do we know? I believe that our registrar needs to move forward. And as I understand it, Supervisor Graber, if the money can't come out of one resource of funds, then it very well may come out of the CARES Act. But we do need to go forward and appropriate the money so that they can have the proper staff in place to handle. Thank you. We'll put it where we can, where we can get guidance. Further discussion, anyone? Supervisor Fischer? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. And that concludes my report, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. So public hearing, 12-month outdoor festival permit request of Cannon Springs LLC. Who has this one? Got it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. This is a request for a 12-month festival permit. There's three events that have been listed. Two in September, September 5th and September 26th and then the third on October 3rd. These are all weddings. I would point out that this property was in back in the spring for a festival permit, which the board granted. At that time, there was a CEP application for an event center pending. COVID has occurred and the applicant was held up. We've had a couple of meetings with VDOT comments for quite some time. That CEP application is currently scheduled to go before the Planning Commission next week, I believe. So, the applicant is requesting this festival permit to cover events that are scheduled, you know, with an overlap in time for the hopeful approval of the conditional use permit. And I'm happy to try and answer questions. And this planning staff has additional knowledge. If the board has questions of them. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any questions for Mr. Tierney? Chairman? Yes, sir. Mr. Tierney, is it possible to have a festival permit that's less than 12 months? So, for instance, could we say I request a festival permit for two festivals within the next month or so as an example? I think it's the board's prerogative to limit it if that's your choice. Chairman, if I may. A 12-month festival permit under the county code, the 12 months runs from January to December. So, it's not 12 months if you approve it in August and it runs to the following August. So, this would be August to December. Yes, sir. Other questions of staff? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. This isn't so much a question of staff as just to make the rest of us on the board here aware of some information that I know in conversations with adjoining landowners and the applicant themselves. The only reason that the CUP has not already been processed and probably through the loop is they have been waiting on utilities to be moved. A significant delay due to COVID and the utility companies being backed up. They would not have even been before us for a festival permit, as my understanding, had it not been for that holdup by the utility companies. It would have been a CUP only and no festival permit. I have spoken with the contractor. They have their full speed ahead, ready to go ahead to be fully compliant with the CUP. I would like to see this as a stopgap measure, essentially, to get them to that point. Thank you, sir. Is there anything that you all would like to add? Well, as you might know, we are a family oriented farm as the property was before we owned it. And we have done our best to honor the four generations of Hetzels that were before us. We chose to remodel the buildings that were previously there, which we feel added value to the surrounding properties, as well as to the community. And we also feel that we could bring added revenue to the local community through things like cut flowers and Christmas trees and fresh meats from our farm. Our intent is to have weddings and smaller events like family reunions or birthday parties, which would then bring added revenue to local businesses like florists and hotels and restaurants. And as Mr. Tierney said, originally we were on track for a CUP. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Tierney. Thank you, Mr. Tierney. We started the CUP in the spring of 2020, much earlier in the year, spring and ironically March or April. So we find ourselves in this position because of COVID, which none of us really could have predicted. And so, and typically people planning weddings plan 12 to 18 months in advance, which is why we find ourselves in this position. 12 to 18 months ago, we didn't think we would be here. We received our VDOT approval. We received it with the opening of things from COVID. We have had a lot more progress. So we received our approval from VDOT and we are ready to move forward with that, as Mr. Graber said. And with the events that we do have, we intend to have deputies on site with directing traffic until we do have our new entrance in. And we also plan to end events at 10 p.m. and have lights out and everything cleaned up by 11 p.m. to accommodate our neighbors. Thank you. Thank you. You can have a seat. Thank you very much. So is there a public hearing? Would anyone like to comment concerning this proposed festival permit? Anyone? Anyone at all? Last call. We'll close the public comment portion. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to do a small presentation here on their farm. I am very impressed with the work that they've put forth. Some of you may be aware. About two weeks ago, 10 days ago, I had a large outcropping of residents surrounding there that were upset because they had been given misinformation about what this application was all about. I'm proud to say I've spoken with every adjoining landowner that I believe, as I can see on the map, that is an adjoining landowner. And they have all voiced appreciation for what has been accomplished. And they have voted or indicated that they would support us passing this festival permit. So I'm very happy to be here. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right. So we've got a view looking south, southwest. As you can see, there's no homes. But the closest home from there is approximately 500 yards. It's an absolutely beautiful setting. This is looking kind of west, northwest, from a barn which they've restored, which you'll see in a moment. This is looking due north. Here's some ponds that they've put in. some of their farming operations. As was mentioned, this was a farming operation that had been in four generations. The barn was in terrible shape, the house as well, and many outbuildings. They have essentially preserved some buildings that were nearly 100 years old for future generations to see. There's a picture of the barn. You can kind of see them to the right. If you look, use my pointer, they've already planted their Christmas trees. They plan to make this a working farm with some events to supplement. There have been a lot of trees planted here, a lot of different things, to make this an agricultural success as well as an educational success for future generations. This is their lane turning left. You can see a long ways there. It's a good entrance in and out. However, there are some neighbors that have some concerns because that is your entranceway looking right. What I had asked them to do was to place a sheriff's, deputy there as part of this permit for the last two hours of the event as people were leaving to try to provide for safety because a lot of traffic on this road does not exactly follow the posted speed limit and other issues. They have graciously agreed to do so until their new entranceway is put in. They are only waiting for those utilities to be moved. It is a matter of hopefully days to weeks, not months, until that entranceway is in. The contractor that they have contracted is a very reputable contractor, well-known in the community, does excellent work. He is ready to go. It is simply a couple days wait, we hope. There is kind of a map of the area. We had a lot of people that were up in arms about it that live somewhere down out here. I am not sure exactly how they had a dog in the fight because as you can see, it is a three-mile radius there of the farm. For all of you folks who are looking, there in the blue, I have spoken with all the adjoining landowners there, about eight different families. They have all expressed consent to give, these fine folks, an opportunity to move forward. With that, I would like to make a motion that we approve the 12-month outdoor festival permit of Cannon Springs LLC and make that as a motion. I heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. This is a public hearing. Is there any opportunity to ask the applicant a couple of questions or not? You may. All right. This is Leonard Berg. Did you buy this farm? Let me rephrase this. Do you own the farm? No, my dad owns. So from what I understand, that the farm is an LLC owned by another LLC. Are the people that are in either LLC capable of meeting the mortgage obligations, if any, on this property now? Yes, sir. Okay. Second question is, was the purpose for this farm purchase to run a business, to run a farm or something else? Meaning, is this a supplemental operation or is this your prime livelihood? It's supplemental to us. The purpose originally was for farming. And then my daughter, when she was getting married, cost me a lot of money. I'm wanting to get married there and in developing that, fixing up this, it grew larger. It became like, okay, maybe I can do this for events. I'm glad you're a good father. I gave your daughter a wedding that she'll remember for the rest of her life. And I'm paying for the rest of my life, by the way. But that's how it started, yeah. So when you purchased the farm, because I know it was an older farm and the records say that it changed in November. I think you purchased it a year earlier and you might have done some. May of 2019. What was your intent? On purchasing that? I mean, I know it was an elderly woman that was selling it. So the question is, what was your intent on purchasing it? To continue with the farming and clean it up. We were intending to someday live there. Okay, thank you. Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Yes, sir. I also have a question for the app. Yes, sir. When you were here earlier in the year, you were asked a direct question. Is this a one-time event prior to filing for your CP? And you answered yes, that it would be a one-time event. So my question is, why are there events happening now before the CP? And why is it that the CP has been approved? We anticipated having this approved long before now, but it just kept getting delayed with VDOT. We recently got the VDOT approval a couple weeks ago. Yeah. So were you just assuming that you would get the CUP and that's why you went ahead and scheduled things before you actually had a vote from this board approving the CUP? We scheduled the events probably 12 months ago or more. And we originally intended to be applying for the CUP in spring. So. That would have put us around the end of summer to have the acceptance of a CUP. So you scheduled these before the hearing when you came in to get the first event permit. Thank you. Further questions of the applicants? Thank you very much. So is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning this proposed festival permit? Anyone at all? Anyone? Last call. Mr. Chairman, I think. Yes, sir. Wasn't a motion made for approval of the. It was. Yeah. But we didn't get public input. We've already had a public. Okay. All right. Mr. Chairman, I have a comment. Yes, sir. This is at least the third of these CUPs that have come up where the proponent or the applicant has scheduled the events before they had their CUP approved. Just last month, we were discussing people putting up towers before they had their towers approved. And we passed a penalty within the zoning administration code that would allow for a substantial financial penalty for violating the zoning. To me, it seems once again that we have someone who put the cart before the horse. We were told a few months back that it was a one time thing. But apparently they've just said they scheduled these things even before that hearing. So I feel like we were kind of misled at the last hearing if there were events scheduled 12 months ago, but we were told it was a one time event. So I'm inclined not to vote in favor of this simply because we have laws, we have ordinances that are meant to be approved, but we don't have the ability to do that. So I'm inclined not to vote in favor of this simply because we have laws, we have ordinances that are meant to be approved, and we have a lot of things that we need to do to get the right things done. ordinances that are meant to be followed. And there are plenty of people out there who are doing the right thing and following the ordinances and not making assumptions about whether or not they'll get a special or a conditional use permit. So I'm opposed to this festival permit. Any further discussion? Mr. Chairman? Anyone? Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Chairman, when this came before us in May, I asked Mrs. Lindenberg whether this is a one time situation. And I believe that she had. She had scheduled a wedding. At the time, I did not know she had already been married. I thought it might have been her wedding. About a year ago, we had another situation where we had a CUP. Weddings had been scheduled. And at that point in time, I said, OK, I'll make an exception to try to do this. I'm getting tired of having events scheduled, coming to the board and saying, well, if you don't do this, in two weeks, we're having somebody being married. The people have gone through with a CUP. And there's nothing wrong with that. But on their website, which I looked afterwards, they're obviously soliciting business. There's nothing that says subject to our being approved. And so, like Mr. McCarthy said, the board has the prerogative to go and approve or not approve. And I would strongly encourage applicants that do CUPs to wait until the board finishes its process before you go ahead and do that. It's almost a slap in the face to people that are having to make decisions, knowing that you have to do this. But I'm not going to go into that. I'm going to go into that. I'm not going to go into that. I'm going to go into that. But I'm not going to go into that. But I'm going to go into that. If you have weddings or events that are already scheduled with people involved, I would encourage all CUP applicants to wait until this board finishes the process completely. And then, for that reason, I can't support this. Mr. Lonerberg, I understand – or, sorry, Mr. Smith, I understand you've done a good job. Mr. Graber has shown me some pictures of what your project was before. Well, that's good. But just to come through and say we now want a one-time situation, which was in May. I'm sorry about COVID. and now you have another situation. This is wrong, so I'm going to vote no. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor. Well, I'm sympathetic to both of the supervisors who have previously spoken. I do understand that running a business, sometimes you have to do some planning in advance. And I believe that in speaking with the Smiths and Ms. Winterberg, that the plan was to be completely legal and not have ever come before this board, asking a couple weeks before a wedding for a festival permit. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Sharon, may be able to further elaborate a little bit on this, but if memory serves me correct, we would have had a hearing as far as the CUP process goes in March or April at the latest, and would very, is that correct, Mr.? That is correct, Mr. Cameron. And would not have been anywhere close to this process, wherein they would have had plenty of time to have rescheduled those weddings and had other people come in. They have been working diligently, as I've spoken with their contractor, that they have been working with to try to put in a road entrance to be compliant with the CUP. They have been working diligently to try to follow the outline that was given to them by Mr. Sharon. And I believe that they've been doing everything and been being compliant. Am I correct? That is correct, Mr. Ray, where they have turned in their application. They've also turned in their building code issues that they had out there on both the, as you pointed out, the board and the CUP. Now the fact that they have turned in their application on both the CUP and the CUP, and you figure out what's going on with the building, as ARE watched every step of the way, edge from one of our limitations, I mean you can't really point with that all the time in the house which right now if the board approves in September with the conditional use permit, they can start bringing everything where they need to be in order to start the business. As you pointed out, as the submit did not take of the Unbelievable Laure3 3CHAM voted on here, they've been a contact with myself and the building official every step of the way. So they've been, to get at here is is we would never have been at this point had it not been for outside agencies which have been held holding them back they have not been negligent and what have they been doing they have been diligent and trying to be open and forthright and honest and I while I agree that I don't want to see folks coming before us two weeks before an event is before us I do believe that this is truly a special circumstance or situation and I believe that they have not tried to pull the wool over our eyes or be deceitful with that said I understand why maybe a couple of you are voting or believe the way that you believe and I can can only hope that you would be willing to talk with staff if if you can't support the CEP in the future and get the details before we vote on their CUP that is forthcoming thank you yes sir mr. chairman when you run a business you have to get a license you have to do certain things first so if you want to be an attorney if you want to be a doctor if you are there are certain jobs are required that you do certain things first you cannot go practice law without a license you cannot go and do surgery without being certified and so mr. mr. mr. graber this is simply a certification the process in my opinion is wrong they should have waited until they were approved and then go forward and we could debate those merits but I think but I think it's wrong for them or any other CUP holder to go and just assume that they will go and do something. They should wait till the process is completed and I do not appreciate jumping ahead of the process. Thank you. Further discussion, anyone? Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Supervisor Dunn, I'm sorry. Nay. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. And McCarthy votes no. Mr. McCarthy. I'm sorry. You left out. I vote no. It's not consequential but I vote no. I've already written it down. I'm sorry, Mr. McCarthy. All right, that'll bring us to a public hearing amendment to the 2021 fiscal year budget. Mr. Chairman and members of the board, you have in your packet a resolution which basically appropriates the CARES funding which the county received. This funding is a result of the act passed by Congress in which we through the state received $7.8 million with a number of stipulations. The funding has to be spent on costs incurred directly as a result of the health, health and safety crisis related to COVID. It has to be on items that were not contemplated in our budget. And it also has to be spent by December 30th of this year. So staff has been working since this announcement to try and get processes in place to appropriately use those funds, including the cost of the health, health and safety budget. These include cataloging expenses that we'd already incurred such as PPE and things of that nature, overtime, et cetera. So we have a number of projects and programs in the works which we haven't really rolled out yet in part because we haven't come to you to appropriate these funds. I would note that if the board sees fit to do this, we'll be back a second time because just recently, Recently, the state released the second half of this money, so we have another roughly $7.8 million to figure out how we're going to use it. As of right now, the same stipulations that the money has to be spent by December 30th. So there's some hope that that timeline will be extended. This is literally a moving target. We get new guidelines almost daily, so we're constantly trying to adapt and adjust to figure out what's appropriate, what isn't, in terms of the use of the funds. We're trying to be very careful in how we do that. One thing I failed to mention also, a requirement of this is that an appropriate proportion of this funding be shared with the towns and the localities. So that would be Middletown and Stephen City. We're planning to do that based on population. So that's sort of a synopsis of where we are. And as you know, this is a public hearing. Also, I have representatives from the Finance Committee, particularly Ms. Kibler, who's been up front on this and working virtually full time to keep us on track if there's detailed questions. Questions of staff? Anyone? Yes, for Supervisor Dime. So, Mr. Tierney, if we pass this, it allows us to... It allows us to go and use the money, $7.5 million, an addition of $7.5 million. And then do you come back to us to determine where that money goes? Do you, as the administrator, determine that money, where it goes? Is this a first-come, first-served until the money runs out? How is that processed? So the two questions are, one, if we pass it, does it allocate the money? And then, two, how is it distributed? If you pass it, you're amending the budget and appropriating the funds. As we envision it, staff would be responsible for figuring... figuring out how we use it. If the board wants us to come back, we can do that. I would note that, you know, this is a moving target. It's middle of August, and we've got to try and spend this money by December 30th. And to be very up front and candid, I'm not sure how we're going to do that. We've incurred expenses. We've not incurred... The county has not incurred $8 million, let alone $16 million worth of expenses. Another stipulation on this funding is that we can't use it to supplant lost revenue. It'd be wonderful if we could, because certainly we will lose some revenue in various tax categories. We can't use it for that unless they lift that restriction. So we are trying to be diligent and make sure that any money that we spend, that goes out the door, is spent in an appropriate way. Thank you. Go ahead. Mr. Tierney, I know we've had at least one application for money from an organization that said because of COVID, we're weak or not. Is that type of application open? Can they receive money out of this? Or because it would be lost revenue, or at this point in time, do you not know, which is okay as well? We are, as you, I'm sure, have read in the local paper, all the localities in the area are dealing with... with the same issue, trying to put programs in place. We are proposing that through our EDA, we would fund grants to businesses and nonprofits that can demonstrate that they've incurred expenses related to COVID. The details of all that are being worked out as we speak. So I'm trying to answer your question. I'm not sure if I have. Thank you. I mean, you have. We're working on this together. I just want to get the... the parameters of what we're dealing with. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Any further questions of staff? This is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning this proposed amendment to the fiscal year budget? Anyone? Last call. We'll close the public comment portion. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we amend the fiscal year 2021 budget with a... supplemental appropriation in the amount of $7,792,215. Second. Motion and a second. Further discussion? Supervisor Dunn. I support this because of COVID. But I would encourage the County Administrator and encourage all of you to not spend the money just because it's there. This is tax money. This was a $3 trillion operation. To put that in perspective, this is a $3 trillion operation. that in perspective, in 1980 when Ronald Reagan was president, our total debt was less than $1 trillion. In the last 10 years, it's gone up $10 trillion. This is huge. Mr. McCarthy's children, Mr. Tierney's children, all of you in the audience that have children, your children are going to be paying for this debt situation. So I'll vote for this, but I would encourage both Mr. Tierney and others to not just spend it because it's there. If you don't spend it, it's not spent. Otherwise, it's a further obligation to children. It's going to be significant. Thank you. Further? Anyone? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That will bring us to 10C, the public hearing amendment to the Frederick County Code, Chapter 7, Elections. Is this? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Does this require an explanation, or we can certainly provide one? Other questions? Anyone? Sounds like we're good. Thank you. You're welcome. So public hearing, would anyone like to comment concerning this proposed amendment to the Chapter 7, Elections? Anyone? Last call? We'll close the public comment portion. How would the Board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we amend Frederick County Code, Chapter 7, Elections, Section 7-3, to include the Sunnyside Plaza Drive absentee voting precinct. Is there a motion? Is there a second? Second. And a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Question for the county attorney. This is being done. And because we're in a unique situation with this particular election with COVID and such, is if we pass this, it becomes a permanent part of our code until such time as we would amend the code again. Can we amend the code in such a way that it has a sunset provision so, you know, it's good for this election only? That would certainly be, excuse me, be within the Board's prerogative. And, Mr. Chairman, the only reason I bring that up is there are significant expenses associated with having that second location. So my preference would be... Well, I'll actually make a motion to amend the motion that's on the floor, that this only be for the upcoming general election. Second. Motion is second. To amend, is there discussion? I'm not sure it wouldn't pay us to wait until we see how things are going next year. I'll always pass it again next year. There you go. All right. Further discussion? Anyone? I'll support Mr. McCarthy's effort. As he said, we can always pass it next year, but I'd like to see it in the next year. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. Schomin. No, Mr. Prescott. All right. We all have a vote. And whose motion is that, Mr. Schomin? Maybe it will go- Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Now we will vote on the amended motion. Supervisor Fisher. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. That will bring us to public hearing. Conditional use permit 0420. Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is a request for a conditional use permit for a 70-foot commercial telecommunication tire with an accessory structure to be located at 100 Archwood Trail in the Shawnee Land subdivision. The property is currently zoned R5 residential recreation community and is surrounded. The land is vacant with the exception of the tire that's located on top of the land. The property is immediately adjacent to this proposed conditional use. The property is currently zoned R5 residential recreation community and is surrounded. The property is immediately adjacent to this proposed conditional use. Turn your attention to the map on your left and the plat of the Archwood Trail. And the property as pointed out earlier is surrounded by vacant property up there in Shawnee Land. This conditional use permit application was applied for in response to a zoning violation due to construction of the 70-foot telecommunication tire for internet wireless communication on this property without a code. This froze Lайla and Walter Roy a perfect area with a with a rule of code that could be applied in the community<|en|> This is the layout that the propertyowner used for this project. submitted that shows the tower. It's a drawing that they put in, but the tower has been up there for quite some time. And again, should the board supervisors find this use to be appropriate, the Planning Commission recommend the following conditions be assigned to this conditional use permit. Our review agency comments you can comply with at all times. Tires should be available for co-location or personal wire service providers. Number three, the tire should be removed by the applicant or property owner within 12 months of the abandonment of operation. Number four, an expansion or modification is usually requiring a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission had a public hearing on this application on July 1 and approved, recommended approval for the conditional use permit with the assigned conditions. Following the public hearing, staff is seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors on this proposed conditional use permit for a telecommunications facility. Happy to answer any questions Mr. Chairman, you and your board members. may have on this application. Questions for Mr. Chairman, anyone? I do. Yes sir. Mr. Chairman, do you have any idea when that tower may have been built or how long it's been in place? Probably about ten years or more. Okay. Has it changed ownership from the time it was put on the first time? No, since Mr. Blankenship has had it at that time. No further questions, thank you. Anyone else? Thank you, sir. So this is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning the application? Anyone at all? Last call. Mr. Chairman, I will note that we received a comment via email which you have in front of you this evening. We do have that, yes. Thank you. All right, we'll close the public comment portion. Conditional use permit, how would the board like to handle it? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. It is back. I'm gonna make a motion that we approve conditional use permit 04-20 for Robert S. Blankenship for a 70-foot commercial telecommunication facility. Second. Motion is second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Conditional use permit is approved. Draft update to the 2021 Frederick County Prime Area and Interstate Road Improvement Plans. This is a dual public hearing for Frederick County and VDOT. Mr. Bishop, thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Just as a point of clarity as I introduce this item, of course you're, I'm sure by now, quite used to always seeing the secondary plan along with the interstate and primary plans. However, due to the COVID-19, pandemic, the state is still updating revenue projections and as such we have not been able to move over the secondary plan so far. So tonight you have the interstate and primary plans. With that, we'll begin with the interstate road plan update. As you can imagine, with one interstate in our locality, not a lot changed on this fairly well-established plan, but there were a couple of updates. Which I will detail. The first of which has to do with the language of Exit 317. Specifically, I simply made the language in the description of that improvement more general to accommodate the fact that we have two smart scale applications moving forward on the project of different levels of intensity. The first of those is your local application, which is going for the VDOT district grant program, which is a smaller pot of money and as such it's a smaller, a more modest application. I don't want to call it a Band-Aid treatment because it still is a significant improvement, but that would simply improve the turn lanes that currently go under the interstate for the northbound and southbound on-ramps and it would also realign the northbound exit ramp onto Route 11 to the location currently where Redbud Road is, which would allow us to remove a signal and still general improvement. Juxtapose that with a competing application we have going for the Interstate Road Plan. For example, the Interstate Road Plan for the Northbound and Southbound, which is a much more significant improvement. The second change you'll note to the plan has to do with the implementation of the plan for a different pot of money, the statewide high priority grant money, which we are applying for through the MPO for a treatment known as a diverging diamond, which is a much more significant basically reconstruction of the interchange and more significant improvement. As I noted, the point of the language generalization is to make sure there's no conflict with either one of those applications. The second change you'll note to the plan has to do with Exit 307, which I'll point to it mostly because I have a pointer, not because you don't know where it is. Right down there. Previously there was one dot that accommodated the fact that not only does existing Exit 307 need improvements, we do hope to relocate Exit 307 in the somewhat far future. However, we split that out to make it a little more clear since they are technical. So, now you see two dots where you previously saw one and that is the extent of the update to your interstate road improvement plan. Are there any questions on the interstate road improvement plan before I move on? Thank you, sir. Likewise, the primary road improvement plan is fairly well established and while we have more than one primary road, unlike the interstate plan, we have a fairly select list of roads such as 11, 750, 522, 37, etc. But the primary, the only change really to this plan has to do with the fact that the Route 277 project between Double Church Road and the interstate has now actually begun. In the past, you may recall that even though a project was funded, this project specifically as a matter of fact, we left it on there just to kind of see the whites of their eyes. We have a lot of road improvements that we're going to be doing. We're going to be doing a lot of road improvements. We're going to be doing a lot of road improvements. We're going to be doing a lot of road improvements. But we're also going to see some of the road improvement projects under the seasoning plan that have beenă that have been ô build CDC routine plan, take any questions you may have on the primary road improvement plan,��ý Denis sonro initially scheduled as a SOL7 th by transit. I was going to let Ms. Road Improvement Plan. Questions, anyone? Is the state still using the same program for secondary roads selection as to where they fall? For Smart Scale, it's basically at this point, yes. We see modifications each round as we did with the current round from the previous. I don't expect that to change in future rounds. Seems to be tweaks every time around. Not to be facetious, but they don't often benefit us, it feels like sometimes, but sometimes they do if I'm being honest. So, but that is the situation for the foreseeable future. The secondary program, secondary plan, which is not before you tonight, in a lot of ways is becoming a bit of a dinosaur as more and more of the state controlled funding is funneled through the Smart Scale process. It still exists, but it's got less and less teeth as it goes forward. If I may, Mr. Chairman, just as a matter of information for the board, one thing the committee also authorized me to look into for consideration for future years is to look at the priority setting process of other localities and areas in general, just as an informational and research item for the committee to look at and consider if that develops into anything. Of course, it'll come to you at the proper time. That's all I have for you, sir. Great, questions of Mr. Bishop, anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Just one quick comment. Supervisor McCarthy. One quick comment, since Supervisor Wells brought up the secondary plan. Gainesboro has significant deficiencies in some of its secondary roads. I just wanna thank you. You're not here every meeting, so I wanna thank you while you're here for all the work that you've done for the citizens of Gainesboro District. You've done a significant amount of work helping them and they've had glowing things to say about what you've done to help out with some of the road conditions that we have out in Gainesboro. So thank you. Thank you, sir. The public hearing, would anyone like to comment concerning these updated draft plans? Anyone at all? Last call. And we'll close the public comment portion. How would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to adopt the resolutions for the interstate and primary plans as presented. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, Supervisor Fischer? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Weld? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion carries and the resolution is adopted. Mr. Klein. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is an ordinance amendment to amend the definition, for daycare facilities to include adult care. And this is presented to you all this evening for information discussion and purposes. The county's current definition for daycare facilities currently limits these services to only children. An amendment to the definition is proposed as follows. That it be a facility in which five children and or adults not including persons who are related by blood, marriage or adoption to the people who maintain the facility are received for care, protection, and the purpose. Thanks Mr. Chairman. and guidance during only part of a 24-hour day. The proposed amendment would not change which zoning districts this type of facilities are allowed by right through a conditional use permit. Daycare facilities are currently allowed as a conditional use only in the county's RP residential performance zoning district. Staff notes that we do our definition, excuse me, our zoning ordinance does include a separate distinctive use, child care services, which are allowed as a conditional use permit in the RA rural area zoning district and is an allowed use in the B1 and B2 business zoning districts. Adult care facilities like child care facilities are regulated by the Virginia Department of Social Services in addition to those requirements in the county's zoning ordinance. The ordinance amendment was proposed by a local engineering firm working in conjunction with the Westminster Canterbury property that you all are probably aware of. The ordinance amendment was proposed by a local engineering firm working in conjunction with the Westminster Canterbury property that you all are probably aware of to allow this use in the RP residential performance district. The development review and regulations committee discussed this item on June 25th and they highlighted in their discussion a gap in this type of service in the community for the care of elderly and or disabled adults during the work week. The planning commission discussed this item on August the 5th and this item is presented to this body this evening for information discussion. Following your comments, staff is seeking a recommendation from the board of supervisors to make this item a part of the development review and regulations committee. The board of supervisors is also seeking a recommendation from the board of supervisors on whether this ordinance amendment is ready to be sent forward for a public hearing. I'm of course available to answer any questions you may have. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Questions for Mr. Klein? Anyone? Supervisor Slaughter. My experience with adult day care facilities, a lot of times they take place in churches and so forth. So if a church wouldn't necessarily and they wanted to establish an adult day care, would they necessarily have to do that? Terri Sieringer, Evan Roland. There's a depos менee r law on priorities or location of IVP housing in the cityпas. So? Yes, sure. We can we can get our attention there. Sure. If presence for the patron층s precinct, on March 1st, be made available. We don't request an Alle쉬 line obviously on May 5th. O cnere sites will determine the timing and timing of an individual basis. The live-action security easvorime of assisted access by the appropriate cost center in the city. If an official option or collecting Musson, etc. is Однакоulle simple, to include daycare facility across all districts if you'd like to change that definition but this is a very narrowly focused ordinance request on behalf of an engineering firm to allow westminster canada to establish such a use on their property that is zoned only rp but there was no discussion then for perhaps churches that are located within the county and other areas to have the ability to do that within what you're proposing tonight we did not discuss broadening it outside of the rp district correct mr chairman if i may offer some assistance please when part of a church facility and they offer those services supervisors slaughter it may be considered an accessory to the primary use so given the scale of it if it's just something that occurs naturally with any church operation it may well may well be permissible my comment would be that i don't see why we would restrict it only to the rp um don't want to hold up a decision um too long but i don't see why we would restrict it and we certainly at the direction of the board could expand that to make sure that it is consistent throughout all of the zoning districts comments supervisor dine so right now if a person is taking care of an elderly person adult care they're dropping them off at a predetermined facility is that correct as i understand that these type of facilities would be similar to a child care setup where they're an independent freestandings facility where you could bring multiple you know adults could come together more than five you know could come together and be in a in under care and guidance of a supervised right so right now though today um if you put three or four or five adults in an area that's a that's being run as a business correct if that were the case we don't currently have the ability in our current definitions to allow such a facility to exist so this change would enable those types of facilities to exist within the county this would then be for an arbitrary time of nine to five or eight in the morning or 7 30 in the morning to 5 30 it doesn't become a elderly 24 hour type facility correct right it's not like an assisted living or a memory care facility it's only for a limited period of time within a 24 hour period so that could be you know like you said nine to five eight to four or even a partial day depending on the need then one other question is those people be independent or would they need assisted living i.e medical care or somebody to help them go through or the person had lou gehrig's disease or the person has severe cancer how is it defined um between that and assisted living even if it's for part of a day i don't believe these types of facilities are providing any kind of medical care it's just supervision during the during the day thank you mr chairman any other questions or comments mr chairman yes sir question for the county yes question for the county attorney so in light of the fact and i agree with you mr chairman that this shouldn't be restricted just to this one area could we pass a motion today that says we'd like to move this forward to public hearing subject to being rewritten to include all zoning zoning districts within the county yes absolutely i mean it's the board's prerogative to initiate a potential ordinance change and direct the planning commission to do the public hearing okay thank you yeah any other questions yes sir mr klein if we do if we go through this is this and then a by right so if i have a home and i could have five children come i could also have five adults come and if mr wells who lives right next to me i can have five children come and i can have five adults come and i can if mr wells who lives right next door and i can have five children come and if mr wells who lives right next door i can have five children come i can have five adults He does the same thing. Can he do the same thing or not? I mean, I'm just seeing what the regulations are on this in certain districts Let's say for example changing it across all of the districts in the RA the rural areas and the RP Presidential performance district the use would still require a conditional use permit that would come before the Planning Commission the Board of Supervisors for public Hearing and then in our business and industrial districts, it would be a allowed use. Okay. Thank you others anyone Thank you, sir. So public hearing would anyone like to comment concerning these proposed changes I'm sorry, not a public hearing. Oh, we're sending it So the question is are we ready to send it forward to public hearing? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir I would move that we send it forward to public hearing with the rewrite to allow it in all the different zoning districts of the county And just one point of discussion Now we have a second Mr. Dunn if you're interested in seeing what the facilities look like in Winchester there's the Adult care center of the Northern Shenandoah Valley and they would be very glad to show you give you a tour of what they do there They do great work and I think this would just expand a much-needed Type of work into the county that I think is only going to continue to grow and it's needs So I would encourage you to go see that if you have time All those in favor aye aye opposed no will forward it to public hearing with the amendments All those non- potrzevious to public hearing almost carries by Mr. Dunn Mayor says he will continue to give an marriages report that seems to be working All right ordered a browse here Okay we're vlog talk Absolutely Mean om y Somebody says We'll see you later minutes to three minutes or less please sir welcome mark jay steponzi gainsborough district uh i'd like to thank the uh ladies and gentlemen uh chairman and members of the board i'd like to thank uh y'all for what you did tonight concerning hc would have spoken earlier except it was hot today i was in the sun until i got wet anyway um it's it's a very unusual situation where we can actually and and rightfully so uphold the constitution you know shall not be infringed is one of the most strangest things where you have to have a lawyer to misconscrewed what that means and i'm not just speaking uh from a citizens alone perspective i wore a badge for a couple years and i'm thinking of also the law enforcement officers that would have to be caught between upholding the constitution what many of us including myself swore to uphold uh i worked for the state so it was not just the federal constitution but the uh the of the commonwealth of virginia as well every day you're seeing examples of where this is falling apart and yes it's liberal held uh areas but it's the principle behind it all and i think it's uh it's very important that it's recognized that we're upholding uh something locally as important as the second amendment which protects all the other amendments as we're seeing you know them under attack and i want to thank you all for that thank you thank you sir anyone else anyone have anything you'd like to share with the board chairman yes sir one other item this is this is an opportunity for our citizens i apologize can i come right back to you please apologize thank you anyone all right we'll close the public comment portion supervisor dunn thank you sir sorry mr chairman no no problem um some of you may know we had made a comment about a possible joint meeting with the board of the school board on september 21 22 23 etc and um that's not going to work because of them so the conversation i had with mr foreman um does the last something during the last two weeks of october work so mr chairman maybe you could send out something saying we're going to do that i had spoken with him earlier in the week okay thank you yeah thank you anyone else board comments anyone chairman yes sir i just wonder if it might be appropriate to take that amendment we passed tonight and send the personalized letter from us to the governor just i'm sure he'd have done that i'd really appreciate it i'm sure he would but i'd like to send that to him i'd agree with that mr chairman miss phillips can you take care of that for us please ma'am does that work thank you sir thank you sir anyone else vice chairman wells mr chairman i move to adjourn motion to adjourn the second uh no uh no discussion i heard this is a good time to go yeah um all those in favor aye aye thank everyone for your time attention your comments your input and your patience we'll stand adjourned you
