Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2023-08-09
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=194
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Call the meeting to order, please. The fire marshal has called our room full, so there will be no more folks in. We're very fortunate and appreciative to have the Reverend Dennis Smith, Dolly Bible Church. and Stephen City to deliver our invocation. Thank you very much, sir. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we just thank you for your amazing grace and your amazing love. We thank you that we live in a country where we can come here and gather and talk about these issues. We just pray for your strength and your peace and your wisdom as decisions that are made here tonight. And again, we just thank you for your amazing grace. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you, sir. Vice Chairman. I rise for the Pledge of Allegiance, please. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. In addition to the agenda, how would the Board like to proceed? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a motion that we adopt the agenda as presented, but with one addition, that we add discussion only for a Poorhouse Road 911 communication site to have some discussion regarding community input and comments. Second. And a second. Any discussion? Hearing none. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the agenda as amended. Mr. Chairman, would that fit well under as 8B on the agenda? I haven't gotten that far yet. 8B? Yes, sir. Yeah. Works fine. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Citizen comments, suggestions, comments, comments. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed, no. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor? Aye. Opposed, no. Opposed, no. Opposed, no. So, Mr. Chairman, the agenda item is not subject to a public hearing. Ms. Phillips, anyone? Mr. Chairman, no one has signed up for that list. Very good. We'll move on. Consent agenda, how would the Board like to handle consent? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second, Mr. Chairman. And a second. Any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Well? Aye. Supervisorphy? Aye. Supervisor Ora? Aye. Supervisor Lopkowitz? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. supervisor slide I'm supervisor Ludwig I chair votes on the motion carries consent agenda is adopted as presented or two supervisors comments are there any yes sir supervisor done let's make some comments to green with fire and rescue Monday night we had a Monday afternoon we had a major thunderstorm that's thunderstorm hit our house wiped out our electrical system and 10 o'clock at night my wife said I smell smoke and when we opened up the one of the pot panels smoke came out sparks came out we called 9-1-1 to the 911 operators thank you for responding to green with fire and rescue thank you for responding we appreciate the time you went through the house looking for fire and rescue fire etc we just really appreciate I wanted to let them know that thank you mr. chairman thank you sir other board comments are there any mr. chairman yes I just wanted to add to should I save my comments for 8b as far as the poorhouse tower yes okay thank you would be best thank you anyone else all right move on 8b the senate a a we disrespect the act and put down a notification of the power estable waterORT debts that were owed from construction related items had been resolved. If anybody else on the board is aware of any other outstanding bills that are unpaid from the construction projects that have been ongoing, I would appreciate hearing them. If there are none, I would like to make a motion that we recommend the proposal, their presentation to allow them to be a cable television provider in the county. I'll second it. Heard the motion. What was it? Second? Yes, sir. Second. Any discussion? Yes, sir. Discussion, if I may. Yes. I wanted to thank Supervisor Wells for putting a brakes on things to allow our outside agency there in Frederick Water to get their bills paid. Those outstanding bills, those things were in contention and allowed them to recover their costs and not cost the users, end users, any financial burden. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Are we ready? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries and the cable television franchise is awarded. That will bring us to 8B. Supervisor Lockridge? Yes. I've had the pleasure to meet with constituents on the 9-11 communication tower, on Poorhouse Road. It is a piece of land that is owned by Frederick Water and the next door neighbor is very concerned about the county has not advertised the location and the coordinates properly. The setbacks she has been very concerned about and my proposal is moving forward. We have had it resurveyed, but it is going to be sitting. Right above her home and I would like to motion a motion to direct staff to prohibit third-party vendor on that specific tower. Heard the motion. Sir, second. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to second that for discussion. Second for discussion. Discussion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So when we went through this process for the 9-11 communication centers here in the county, there was a couple things. Very distinctly remember the first one was we wanted to own our towers so that we could dictate who was on them. The second item that we discussed when we were going with those towers is that we were going to lease space to recover some of our costs for those towers and to allow us to have high speed internet throughout the county because at that time we had not yet received the state grant that we subsequently received since then to implement broadband throughout the county. As broadband, there were many areas including my district, supervisor, Lockridge's district, and others that had very limited broadband services. Since we have subsequently entered into the agreement with the state grant monies that we have, that every home will have the ability to have high speed internet or broadband, it becomes much less imperative that we have secondary or third-party providers on some of our towers. I agree that we want to keep as many of our towers open to having, third-party service providers on there to improve cell service or other types of services to our residents. I think that it would be wise just to allow the county administration to look at this site a little closer and come back with a recommendation to this board whether we should remove any third-party vendors opportunities from this tower or if we should continue forward as it is presented. But I would like to see the options that we have as a board before we move forward and jam this down their throats. So my strongest opinion is, is let's, do what Supervisor Lockridge asked and we direct our County Administrator, Ballhoffer, to come back to us with some recommendations on if we remove the third-party options to that or if we leave it as is. Further discussion. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. My question is, I've dealt with a couple of these tower issues in my district. So is it the location of the tower or is the concern for things happening? Because of all the providers on the tower. She is concerned, number one, about the radiation. And she has been told that it's no more than if we could see the whole rainbow, that there's radiation for all of us. However, the cell on top of what the 911 communication is a concern. It is supposed to be a self-collapsing tower. But she is also concerned. That if it, if it, heaven forbid, it does not fall the way it is manufactured to do so, that it will be landing on her house. So she has multiple concerns. And the County might not have been the best neighbor. They cleared the land prior to even letting anybody know this was happening. So, and our coordinates were wrong. So a few things, and now a big concern is the additional radiation. She's got some health factors that play into this. And that's just how I feel we need to proceed. Has the information, on a lot of these towers I dealt with, there was information passed through by the providers on the radiation. And things that are put off, minimal stuff and so forth. Has she received those things? She has, yes. So she would be understanding that that is a go. But that we wouldn't have to do additional. Gotcha. Okay. Thank you. Thanks. Further discussion, anyone? Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. A question, Mrs. Lockridge. What type of a time frame, and Mr. Graber, what type of a time frame are you looking to? If you're looking to postpone this for a month, you know, I could be open to that. If you're looking to go beyond that, we had a major discussion four years ago on this. We had a major discussion before you were here on radiation issues. I understand from staff that this person has been given a good bit of information. I also understand from staff that they've chatted with this person. So if you're looking for a month. I'm open to that. I'm open to that. But I don't want to have this drag out indefinitely. The purpose for those radio towers was to provide 911 services. And the additional space on those towers was to provide money so we could supplement those towers. So if that's your parameters, then I'm okay with it. But I'd like to see a date coming back where you say we'll have it such and such a date. No, that's fine. But I want staff to... To write up something that we can look at that would prohibit the third party is where I'm going with that. So in that tower only? Yes. The other ones, to my understanding, are in a much better location in the middle of maybe a field where somebody owns it. This one is owned by Frederick Water, but it kind of overtowers her home. So if you had something by... Mid-September or late September, is that a reasonable time frame? I think that's fair. Okay. Go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just as a little bit of background for this, L3 Harris, when they proposed their bid, they did site coordinates and they had latitude and longitude and where the tower heights would be. They had everything set in stone. It was pretty much cut and dried out there. With this particular tower, with the company that we ended up going with, their tower sites were not completely selected. As far as... They said that there may be additional sites and they may have to move some sites. And it appears that this site may have been one of those sites that was moved somewhat from what it was originally designed to be. And I think that's what caused some of the concern. And I think it simply gives the residents an opportunity to share in us an opportunity to see, do we want to move forward as it is presented, or do we want to simply limit this one tower to not having third-party hardware on it? And at that point, we can move forward. And at least the residents' concerns can be addressed. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Just a small point. I doubt the plan would be to go back and redesign a tower, but if we were not going to add other additional equipment, would that have changed the design of the tower into something maybe less imposing? I don't know. I do not believe that would change the tower. It would be the same design either way. Okay, thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Are we ready? Yes, sir. Go ahead. Would you like to amend it to a date? Our next meeting is September, what, 13th? You can either say the first meeting or second meeting in September is fine with me, so your call. The first meeting in September, if staff could have... Does that work? We'll find out. Okay. Staff, okay. They're shaking their head in the right direction. That works for us. Okay. All right. Further discussion? Anyone? Are we ready? Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. All right. 8B. Appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. The Conservation Eastern. The National Conservation Authority. Four-year term of Philip Haynes. Four-year term of Judith McCann Slaughter. And four-year term of Diane Kearns. Would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I move that we adopt all three for the terms that are being laid out. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. And a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Well, all three will be appointed. Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Gary Bailey has submitted his application. I've had an opportunity to speak with him. He has significant financial background. He's been recommended by some of the members who are presently serving on that board. It would allow them to have a full board up there. I do not know him very well, but in speaking with him, he seems to be very level-headed and have a good financial background and understanding of how things work up there. So I would like to submit Gary Bailey for the board. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like I said, I have not met the level of funding in that board. Sorry about that. Social Services Board Opecan and the Shenandoah Area Agency on Aging and Seniors First is an at-large representative. This is just just information. Public hearing. Proposed sale of real property located at 901 Aylor Road. We did have a sign-up sheet. Yes we do have a very long list. I will call the person who is going to speak and the following person so that that person can be ready. So we'll start with Deanne Kenney and then John Butler. And I would ask the audience to please respect the time and clapping and cheering just delays the orderly motion of the business. Thank you. All of you all received an email. The exact same email to everybody so not I didn't change anything to anyone. I had two responses. The rest of you all did not respond back to me. So that makes me think that I came here today you know how I feel. You all got the email and I put the email in the paper. And I've been thinking since I wrote that that I have a lot of other concerns. About why this sale should not go through for $300,000. That is prime land in Stephen City. And I know you all put the caveat on there that it can't be built for houses. It can't be used to build houses. I understand that. But there are so many other things that it can be used for other than that. And $300,000 for prime land in Stephen City. You all as I said are the fiduciaries of Frederick County's money. And you all have been at every budget season precise just approving um groups now that you all are approving money for because you want to know what that money is going to do for. What are you using it for? And here you are going to give away County Land for $300,000. It's wrong. Not that it's any other bid you all did. It wasn't advertised to everybody. It's just a愀 It's wrong. Not that it's any other bid you all did it wasn't advertised to everybody. It's not that it's any other bid you all did it wasn't advertised to everybody. So here you are now representing a percent of the staff. So you all need to give away county land for $300,000 and some money to give away county land for $300,000. I've heard from real estate developers, they knew nothing about this. If they didn't know it was on the website, they didn't know it was for sale. And in the past, it has been sent out to them, and they didn't get it. So here we are with $300,000, and you all have to make that decision. And I want to remind each of you that on May the 24th, Mr. Ludwig made the point that if there is the appearance of a conflict of interest, then he could not support at that meeting or any future to vote for something that could be the conflict of interest. This $300,000 piece of land is not being sold to a private school. It's being sold to a private individual where there could possibly be the appearance of a conflict of interest. So when you all are thinking about making this sale, you need to realize that that property on the piece of paper I just saw has an assessed value of $23 million. Now what happens if this individual who's buying this property and the school that is supposedly going to be renovating that, what if the numbers come back that it doesn't work out well for them? It's not going to be physically possible. Is there something funny that's going on? That, you know, what if it's not physically possible for them to get the loan to do this? There is an individual who owns prime land in Stephen City for $300,000. It's not right. And you all need to keep that in mind when you're making that vote. John Butler followed by John Van Drunen. Welcome, Mr. Butler. Mr. Chairman, Supervisors, thank you for this opportunity to speak. I'm John Butler from Opecan. I stand in opposition to the proposed sale of the Ehlers School. The sale is not in the best interest of the taxpayers of this county. The old Frederick County Middle School was built in 65. It was a 22.8-acre parcel with a structure of 102,000 square feet. It was assessed at $8.2 million, appraised at $4.5 million, and it sold in 2021 for $3 million. Tonight, we're discussing the sale of a very similar parcel with the old Ehlers School. It was built in 69. It's a 23-acre parcel with 107,000 square feet. It was assessed at $23.3 million, appraised at $3.5 million. Tonight, you vote on whether to accept an offer of $300,000, which is just 10% of the appraised value. Supervisor Ludwig, I read your interview in the 7 August Winchester Star in great detail. You advocate greater transparency, acting as an advocate for the taxpayer, ensuring there is no conflict of interest or appearance of such on county boards, reaching a point where nobody thinks there's corruption in the county or appearance of conflict of interest, so don't have old businessmen running the board of supervisors. You said much more than that. But I'll stop there. I encourage all citizens of this county to read your interview. On transparency, where are the discussions on retaining the property for future growth or repurposing the existing structure to meet the current or future needs of this county? Advocating for the taxpayer, why were your predecessors on the board able to sell the old Frederick County Middle School for $3 million and you and some on this board think that a sale price of $300,000, or the Aylor parcel, is in the best interest of the taxpayer? Conflict of interest. Where is the discussion regarding the fact that the bidder of the Aylor parcel is the brother of Supervisor Lockridge? I think the citizens of this county will follow your discussions and vote tonight with great interest to determine if there is any merit to your stump speech. Supervisor Lockridge, you must recuse yourself from any votes on this parcel. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. John Van Drunen, followed by Daryl Bell. Welcome, sir. Thank you. John Van Drunen, a resident of the Back Creek District, Chairman DeHaven, and members of the Board of Supervisors. I'm here this evening as a parent of Eucharist Christian Academy students, and I'm urging this board to continue to honor the public bid process that this board set in motion months ago, a public process. The board's honoring of this public bid process will serve to strengthen families and is in the county's best interest. Eucharist is a gathering of parents, grandparents, and more working together to serve families through education, strengthening marriages, and encouraging parenting, all while taking strain off the public school system. If you sell this property to a residential development firm, within five years, it'll be a net negative transaction for the county, with all the capital improvements and additional county infrastructure required in that. Such development only adds to the highly congested traffic that we're all too familiar with on the Stephen City Bridge. The bid that Eucharist has put forward for the property honors the historical use of this land, providing serving families with lots of green space in the middle of a neighborhood. This community does not need to convert this property into another crowdfunding. This is a state-sponsored property, which is a public property, and is a part of the county's national heritage. It's a state-sponsored property, and it's a part of the county's national heritage. If people believe that this property is worth more than the bid, where are the other bids? This was a highly publicized bid process highlighted in multiple newspapers, on radio, in social media, and on the county website. The reality is that unless the county wants this to become additional housing, the development limitation on the deed, as outlined in the bid request, significantly limits the value of the property. For these reasons, I support Eucharist's bid on the property, as this will help serve families, and stronger families are exactly what Frederick County needs. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Daryl Bell, followed by Brian Nury. Welcome, sir. Hi, good evening. My name is Daryl Bell, and I want to introduce myself also as a candidate for the Board of Education in Frederick County, the Opecan District. Supervisor Ludwig, Supervisor Slaughter, Supervisor Wells, Supervisor Daven, Supervisor Dunn, Supervisor Graber, Supervisor Lockridge. I'm asking you with great respect. I'm not here to demonize your decisions. I don't envy your decisions that you have to make. You have good people out here who want what's best for their children, just like I want what's best for my child and children. Actually, I have two. I'm simply here to ask a favor. I ask you to postpone your vote tonight to weigh options that are available due to the crisis of overcrowding in our public schools. I visited almost all of the schools for my candidacy to learn as much as I can about each individual school, and I've had a great time meeting the administrators while doing so. I'm just going to hand it over to you, Mr. President. Mr. President, thank you. I'm sure you'll be happy to hear this. My son goes to Sharando, and there are 16 trailers at Sharando. Mrs. McCoy, I spoke with, has said to me that these children who have to be in the trailers furthest from the school actually have to go into the school. to use the bathroom and it takes them approximately 15 to 20 minutes to do so that's about a third of their time being out of the classroom they're missing that time just to relieve themselves couldn't an option be to use the existing property we have to alleviate the overcrowding I know that Ehlers land cannot accommodate another high school I know a fourth high school has been debated and talked about in this body and in the Board of Education but I also know that elementary schools could be built on that property if you tear down the existing property that's there I'm not anti faith-based education I'm not anti you carrier one of my dear friends actually has all of his children go through that school he was one of my first friends upon moving here to Frederick County and I'm not going to go into that detail but I do want to make sure that you know that I still consider him a good friend I'm just asking you to think about a student who has to sit in a trailer or white plastic dome ish thing like in one of our elementary schools and has to spend 15 minutes to relieve themselves please say postpone the vote and visit our County classrooms to help you in your decision thank you Brian Nury followed by Dan DeLong welcome sir good evening mr. chairman members of the board many miss Brian Nury president of the Opec in district I'm gonna be a good debater tonight am not gonna go over a lot of rehash and repeat what other people have said tonight but I do believe that we either need to strike this motion strike this down or two as was mentioned before delay the vote at the last meeting I was watching the procedure and then noticed that the OPEC district is not snel as I said beforehand but we had a 1 sec delay in stirring move in or delay the vote the clerk's Monday I may as well the procedure and then noticed that a gentleman by the name of Hewitt was the one holding the contract. Now, I have a copy of the bid contract here, and first off, it confirmed that that was there, but the other thing that struck me as odd was the certification by the notary is dated a month before the signature on the document itself, and I can tell you right now, as a notary in the state of Virginia, that's illegal, so I would recommend that someone in the county look into why that was signed a month before it was even corrected, but the main point that I have tonight is why is this county working so hard to alleviate overcrowding in a private school, which is a product of their own success, I guess, when we have schools of our own that we need to take care of, so if we're going to start taking care of a community, let's start taking care of ours first. Let a private school worry about themselves. Let's get this delayed, and Supervisor Hewitt, or Hewitt Lockridge, I would recommend that you sit down for this. Thank you. Dan Donnelly, followed by Jody Hewitt. Welcome, sir. Thank you. I'm Dan Donnelly. I'm the founder and president of Eukary Family Center and the former headmaster of Eukary Christian Academy. I just wanted to thank the board for allowing our community to speak last month. Thank you. a little bit of my comments here just to address some of these things. We felt that the bid process was neutral and open to everyone. We had two other parties that toured with us. We made our bid in good faith because of the way that you've limited the zoning. 23 million or some of these numbers that are thrown around don't seem to really apply. We had another individual that toured with us that had a reputable contractor look at what it would cost to demo the building and the low end was 1.2 million dollars. So anybody that would like to change the use would have to subtract that or add that on to their cost if that makes sense. The way that it's limited and that's your choice, it seems like it would need to be used by a school or church. So we had a lot of people that were interested in the idea of having a building that was a little bit more than just a building. So we had a lot of people that were interested in the idea of having a building that was a little bit more than just a building. So we had a lot of people that were interested in the idea of having a building that was a little bit more than just a building. And it's interesting because I think everyone in the community knows that Old Aylor has, it's going to require a lot of work. And so our bid price reflects that. We have a plan to renovate the building. We currently have around 300 students. It can hold over 800. So we plan on using just a part of the building and doing renovations as we go. We're excited about that. I just want to say, I'm not going to say that we're going to have to do a lot of work. I understand some of the negativity towards the Hewitts. My perspective is the opposite. They didn't need to do this. They are busy people. They're investing money on something that will be given to the school community. They're not going to benefit personally for it. And they're getting flack and things like that in the community from some corners. And I think that's unfortunate because I feel like they're doing a lot of work. And I think that's unfortunate because they're doing a really great thing for our community. Our plan, if you vote for us to receive or the ability to buy, we don't need a study period. We feel like the county's already done that. We've read your 180-page report. We brought contractors in during the public periods. We would like to get a contract as soon as possible, take possession, begin work, and return it to a working school. We'd like to work with a school that's going to be a little bit more open to the community. And I think that's unfortunate because they're not going to be able to receive money for the school. And I think that's unfortunate because they're going to be a little bit more open to the community. We've already agreed to your right of first refusal. So I just appreciate the consideration. I know there's a lot of sentiment to delay, but I hope that you move forward. Thank you. Jody Hewitt, followed by Stacey Hager. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Jody Hewitt, and I'm from the Bat Creek District. My husband, Ross, and I are the owners of RCS Investments, who placed the only bid on the property at the former Aylor. Ross and I are lifelong residents of Winchester and products of Frederick County Public Schools, Aylor being the middle school I attended. We currently own and operate Ridge Runner Container Service and RCS Recycling, which is a trash and recycling business that Ross started from the ground up, and this is our 19th year in business. We're very happy to be here. Thank you. We work closely with many of the local municipalities in handling their recyclables, including Winchester City and Frederick County, and our business allows us to work alongside many amazing small business owners in the area. We have three daughters, age 12, 10, and 2, who attend ECA, and as most parents would say, they are the reason we do what we do every day, including attempting to facilitate the purchase of an old school with no previous desire or intentions to do so. We are parents, business owners, and business owners. We are active members of Roundhill Church, taxpayers, and we are fully invested in the betterment and future of Frederick County. We began this process over a year ago to help ECA search for a new building because they were rapidly outgrowing their current space. Ross attended a school event that he swore took place in a closet. Maybe that was the beginning of the search. ECA has a wait list, and we want other families to have the opportunity we were given when we were scrambling for alternative schooling during COVID. Our children previously attended public school up until this point. Over the course of this year, I am more confident than ever that this location at the former Aylor Middle School in the heart of Stephen City is not only a perfect fit for you, Carrie, to grow and thrive, but also the best fit to serve all citizens of Frederick County. Fiscally speaking, the county should release the cost to taxpayers of maintaining or demolishing this building and the liability and poor aesthetics of a boarded-up abandoned school. There is no money currently in the budget for future use to rehab this building, and the school board deemed this building unfit for use when the decision was made to surplus it and build a new Aylor. Citizens don't want to be a burden to the school board. They don't want to build a prospect for a school board office or parks and rec building that will be tied up for years and cost millions of dollars to build, rather something that can be used immediately and benefit the community now. There are many ways this building can be used to serve all of its citizens immediately, including community partnership for shared field space with the Parks and Recreation Department, which is intended to happen should the bid be accepted. Citizens of Virginia voted for school choice as a top issue when they voted in Governor Youngkin and Lieutenant Governor and Frederick County citizen Winsome Sears. Locally, there is a demand for alternative schools, and the city has been very supportive of the decision. The city has been very supportive of the decision. The city has been very supportive of the decision. The city has been very supportive of the decision. The city has been very supportive of the decision. The city has been very supportive of the decision. The city has been very supportive of the decision. ECA is not asking for funding, but only the opportunity to serve the demand that the citizens and your constituents have. Allow Frederick County to be at the forefront of the changes that are taking place within the educational system and the discernment to see that parents want options for education. live in our community. The strategic best example of this is the Metz opposite. The strategic best example of this is the Metz opposite. provides educational variety provides more diversity and opportunity to its youth rather than a one-size-fits-all homogenous education please respect the bid process and accept rcs investments purchase of aylor middle school for the expansion of eukarya christian academy rcs investments will be donating the building to eukarya christian academy and plans are in place for eca to rehab the building in phases the future interests of the county would be protected through a first right of refusal refusal condition should the property change hands thank you for your time and consideration it means a lot stacy haga followed by perry hewitt welcome good evening my name is stacy haga and i live in the redbud district and i just thank you all so much for this opportunity that we have here as a eukarya community to further grow in the frederick county area tonight i just want to thank you all for your time and for your support and i just wanted to share with you that in june many of us walked the neighborhoods around aylor and we had about 600 signatures on a petition and 200 of them are from the opecan district 200 of them are from the neighboring communities now i don't have to tell you guys getting 200 people to open up their doors and talk to us is no small feat you know how hard it is to get people but overwhelmingly people wanted to keep this a school now that is the option that we have at hand we don't have other options as a county it was surplused it was up for sale this is the option that we have and it's an amazing option to keep aylor a school i encourage you to do this this is not a private school versus public school conversation this is really about being pro education and i believe that this will take the burden off of the public schools right now i live in redbud we have significant residential community being built greenwood's going to be over for the rest of the year and we're going to be able to do that in the next couple years so we're going to have to move forward with that a little bit this year to be able to move forward with that we have a lot of opportunity to build a new school if it's not already at capacity jordan springs already has modules or trailers shirando has trailers we are k through 12 we have the opportunity to take the burden off of public education and allow public education to grow you know as well as i do that it costs anywhere from 50 million to 130 million to build a school right now so if you're looking to put a new public school there on the docket. You've got other priorities right now. Allow us to take some of that burden and to help grow in the Frederick County and Shenandoah community. Thank you so much. Perry Hewitt followed by Ross Hewitt. There you go. Yes. Well done. Welcome. Hi, my name is Perry Hewitt from the Bat Creek District. It would be awesome if we could get Aylor not only to have more room to learn but to also grow in our athletics. I just made the volleyball team but unfortunately me and my sister made different teams. If we had Aylor, all of the volleyball players could practice at the same time in a really nice gym. Thank you. Thank you. Well done. Ross Hewitt. Perry Hewitt followed by Lori Vanderlinden. Welcome, sir. Good evening. Ross Hewitt, Bat Creek District. I'll start with what I was going to say and then address the other stuff. First, I want to applaud you guys for the two action items that you've already taken. One being the cutting the one acre fuel depot from the property. I think that was a smart move for sure being also being today. for your team. is recognizing that yet double the price is murder County mega back in middle school zone for New Hospital's policies. property while the highest value use actually still leads to a net loss to the county's recently kind of addresses a couple of the dissenting comments about praise values sale prices Frederick County, Miller's Family School is, some experts definitely agree that Lith administrators use že dual Fusion in Pittsburgh. um frederick county mill frederick county middle school selling for three million we all know that this property could have garnered a higher price if they were to throw three to four hundred town homes in there and then be right back here in six months saying we need another school in stevens city due to the county sale um we're not here tonight asking for funds or a handout uh we're fully aware our bid may not have been the highest but our extensive research and guidelines were laid out in the public big process led us to think it was strong this public bid process was advertised and it's easy to say it's below market value until it actually means pulling the checkbook out taking the risk and making the commitment which we are doing there have been numerous ideas floated around for different organizations other churches etc but we're the only ones that stood up went through the process and have a plan of action in place with a proven organization that can carry it through um like my wife noted uh through discussions with the county with the first right of refusal protecting future interests the county may have with this property if plants change and the shared use agreement with parks and rec um i guess kind of address uh dan kenny and a couple of the others um the conflict of interest thing um i think uh it kind of it sent my head spinning a little bit um because i feel like it's an attack on my integrity um on representative lockerage's integrity um which is kind of uncalled for i started this search and look over a year ago you haven't been on the board that long so when you live in a community you're born and raised here you're never more than twice removed from anybody I think it's it's kind of disheartening to see that used as a weapon against my family her family whatever it may be and with a conflict of interest that means that there's something financially to gain from this and all that we have done is stood up and said hey we're willing to try to facilitate this I think it's a great opportunity a great thing let us stand up and try to do this this doesn't have anything to do with one vote on the board we're attempting to buy this property and donate it to the school and and I'm just I'm kind of at a loss sorry if I'm getting a little it just it's it stirs me a little bit because there's no financial gain either way our family is taking a huge risk by taking this on and giving it to the school so I would just hope you keep that all in mind that the conflict of thing we're we're you we're in the same community here so thanks for your time good evening thank you sir laurie vanderlinden followed by shane cannon my name is laurie vanderlinden of berryville in clark county i'm both a parent of eukarya graduates and a staff member first I would like to acknowledge the citizens who have taken the time to make comment on social media write their newspaper watch the live streams or come in person tonight they are concerned about the stewardship of the county resources and rightfully so we all pay taxes we want the very best done with that hard-earned money and I would encourage the supervisors to accept this bid as I believe it is in the best interest of taxpayers our family came to eukarya from homeschooling when our youngest two hit a wall in their education with learning difficulties we decided that we needed extra support and felt that eukarya was just the right place for them to get that with the small class sizes and the teachers who met them and who were able to help us with the education we're very grateful to have them where they were and love them like family they learned to overcome obstacles and they blossomed in their academics they graduated with honors and one set a new goal to continue academics at a four year college where she has excelled our turnaround experience is not unusual at eukarya it happens every year as students come to us in our unique academic environment and they have the chance to discover themselves as engaged learners we would like to see every student who comes to eukarya and every family who wants to enroll with us have that opportunity and not be excluded by our space limitations families can enroll full-time part-time or in our separate homeschool program outside students can also participate in our extracurriculars gain future focus through our career and trades concentrations and they can compete on our athletic teams the athletic department is one area where we would especially like to grow to have more community involvement for instance we would love to have a facility where we could offer weekend sports clinics to surrounding families our learning department is a group of team professionals who offer behavioral and cognitive therapies as well as well as educational tutoring it is serving students already beyond our academy but it is poised to help even more families as soon as they have the space to make it possible bottom line we believe this property is valuable to the community and it will best benefit the neighborhood and the residents of frederick county if it's allowed to maintain the purpose for which it was built to be a school we look forward to using the expanded resources to reach out and to restore the property's vibrancy as a community hub as it has been since 1969 please vote to accept the current bid is offered shane cannon followed by caitlin cannon welcome sir thank you good evening my name is shane cannon i live in the red blood district of frederick county and i own a small business expermax in the city of winchester my two children now 10 and 14 attend eukarya have attended eukarya for the last three years following the experience of a divorce in 2019 and the separation from the public schools in 2020 due to covid eukarya has been the saving grace for our children the children have benefited from a family atmosphere small class sizes with capacity to do the work that they need to do and i'm very happy to be here today with you back down on the road and be talking with youiffon sign continuous victory many families are willing to be possible мощnerac leaders and teachers and a learning center where they have received additional educational instruction and most impactful psychological counsellingzekium with Mansour weakening on to a lighter topic a hold up this $20 bill $20 a day is what it costs in child to eukarya okay that's about the cost of lunch if we walk downtown from your office right on a monthly basis it's 600 bucks a car payment the difference of having a home. You carry is affordable if parents make basic choices between a packed lunch or eating out, driving an older vehicle, right, or living in a little smaller home. We're not a bunch of elites here. We're parents that make simple sacrifices for our children, and it's attainable for everyone. Shall you carry have a larger facilities? The bid. I was surprised when I heard the price of $300,000, right, but an open bid was offered to the public, and a sold bid was received. We followed the process. Fair market value of real estate is determined by an open market. The Aylor building's worth $300,000. Please look beyond just the acquisition price and consider the carrying cost to the county to keep the building, right? Consider the opportunity lost to the county of the building not being occupied. Your vote in favor of your carry's purchase of the Aylor building is beneficial to the county's budget, and it quadruples the size of an organization that's all-inclusive. The Aylor building is offering affordable, personalized education to children, restoring family value for children when it's absent at home, and it's building a stronger community in the top of Virginia region. That's priceless. Thank you. Caitlin Cannon, followed by Leanna Zimmerman. Hi, I'm Caitlin Cannon, and this is my brother, Austin Cannon. We live in the Redbud District. We have been students here at UK Area Christian Academy for three years. We moved to UK Area Christian Academy for three years. We moved to UK Area Christian Academy for three years. We moved to UK Area Christian Academy, or we moved to UK Area from public schools in 2020. During that time, our parents were going through a divorce, and it was really hard on me and my family. I was trying to, we were trying to transition to two homes instead of one and deal with the heartbreak of not having a family again. When I moved schools to UK Area, I was afraid at first, but everyone was so welcome and really made me feel at home. UK Area has always done their best in having personal relationships with every student, and all the teachers really care about each and every student and want to help them the best they can. The learning process is really important, and I think it's important for us to be able to do that. The Learning Center at Eukarya has helped me out too. I was struggling with Latin and math and they provided help for me. I had tutors that I would meet with during the summer and it helped me understand math and Latin more precisely. I also met with a teacher who taught me an Equipping Minds class. Equipping Minds is a one-on-one session between a student and teacher to exercise your brain. We played certain games to help me with math and other subjects. I also have a counselor that I meet with once a week that is a part of the Learning Center and talk about things that are occurring. She has helped me set goals for the future and see how I've grown over time. It has really helped me to talk to somebody and feel safe talking with her. Eukarya has helped me and my family in so many ways as long as I've been there. It may not look like a typical family, but we are one big family. I really hope you consider Eukarya Christian Academy for this building. Leanna Zimmerman. Followed by Amy Elmore. Leanna Zimmerman, Opecun District. So thank you for this opportunity. I'm actually kind of here representing a different group of people. I'm a homeowner of a property that backs to the old Aylor building. So I kind of a few things that I wanted to say. I have friends from church whose kids go to Eukarya and as a Christian person, I fully support their bid, but I kind of wanted to share a few other things. My investment in education runs deep. I am a teacher. I work for Clark County Public Schools and I actually work in their pre-K program, which regularly gets moved around based on space availability. So I am no stranger to the space needs that the public schools for the general area, not just Frederick County, not just Winchester City, Clark County, Shenandoah County, all of the counties do have. I understand that that is a real challenge. Like we are all pressed for space. I don't see how that needs to be. I don't see how that needs to be used as a negative thing towards Eukarya and this bid. I am also a person who, not only am I a homeowner, so I care what happens to the built property behind my backyard, but I am also a taxpayer in Frederick County. For me, it is a opportunity to see the green space be continued to be used for the community. It's an opportunity to see the space be a safe hub for the community that I know that Eukarya would only facilitate more of those community practices that I enjoy seeing out in the green space. The track would continue to be available for all to be able to use it as what we currently enjoy seeing it as. I don't really wanna think about there being loud things going on. I am not interested in seeing my backyard become, whether it be retail, or, you know, it's a multi-use space. other type of, I'm not going to get, I don't know as much about the logistics of what it's zoned for, but I know that I want my backyard to feel safe. I bought this house, I'm a single teacher who is a homeowner. I bought the property actually just back in March. I hope to live there for a long time. I enjoy the neighborhood feel, but for me to continue to feel that way, I need to be able to feel safe where I live. And having it become a more commercialized space that isn't a school, um, that's not really the way that I would feel that way about it. Um, I, like I said, I enjoy watching the space being used. I go out, I walk the track, I, I bike around the area. Um, so the idea of being able to, you know, I was, I was one of the people who they showed up to my door, um, on the campaign. It was an interesting cross of relationships because like I said, I have friends, um, whose kids are go there who call this place their family and their home. But I was watching the space being used. I go out, I walk the track, I bike around the area. Um, so the idea of being able to, you know, I was one of the residents whose door they knocked on, you know, 7 p.m. in the evening. I was relaxing in my living room, but I jumped on the opportunity to be able to say, like I said, I come from the, I, I am a Frederick County taxpayer. I am a homeowner. I am also a teacher. I'm putting aside the fact that I am a Christian who stands up and supports educational choice. I'm just invested in education and the ability to, um, provide options and a safe space in that, in my neighborhood is why I'm here and hope that you honor that bid. Thank you. Amy Elmore followed by Ethan Butcher. Hi, my name is Amy Elmore. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I'm going to be up front with you. I'm actually not a constituent to any one of you. I do not live in any of your districts. I do not even live in the state of Virginia. I live in Jefferson County, West Virginia, and I drive 40 minutes one way every school day to bring my youngest child to Eukarya Christian Academy. I have two older children who attended our local public high school. I don't have any issues with public school, and there is a private Christian school 15 minutes from my house, and yet I drive 40 minutes one way every school day to bring my child to Eukarya. Why would I do that? What makes this school so special? I could go on and on about the merits of a classical education. This is a growing education market across the country. I grew up in a new classical school that opened up in Martinsburg, West Virginia, and because Eukarya is in your community, you are uniquely set to tap into this growing market. But the primary reason why we drive 40 minutes one way is because of the resources offered by the Learning Center at Eukarya Christian Academy. My daughter has dyslexia. She suffers on and off from depression, sometimes profoundly so. And she struggles with low self-esteem, even though she is bright and funny, and she is a very good student. And quite likable, I ask anyone of her many friends here. Through the Learning Center, we have access to tutors for her dyslexia. We have access to a program called Equipping Minds, which helps short working memory, which is a common aspect of dyslexia and other learning challenges that kids might have. We also have access to counselors that can help her depression should it flare up. In short, we have access to someone who can help us with whatever is hindering or blocking my child's ability to live to her potential. We have found no other schools in the area that offer this expanse of services. Services that are directed to the entire child. Throughout, the course of her time at Eukarya, my daughter has made some great friends, but her academic achievements have been beyond our expectations. At the end of the school year, she was honored with a certificate of academic achievement. Her GPA was high enough to be on the high honor roll. I cannot stress how important that is to a dyslexic child who suffers from low self-esteem. Her success at Eukarya is worth every single minute I spend in the car. My daughter is very unique and special to me, but I understand that the challenges she faces are not unique to students. I can only imagine how an enlarged Eukarya community could benefit the students of your constituents right here. Eukarya is a testament to the benefit of school choice and a true asset to this community, and I thank you for earnestly considering their petition to buy the old Aylor building. Ethan Butcher, followed by Joan Hughes. Thank you. Welcome, sir. Hey, thank you. I'm Ethan Butcher. I'm from the Opecan District. I work in the live production industry and have recently graduated Eukarya after attending for three years. I came from an all-public school background since kindergarten, and after going to Eukarya, it's a night and day difference. The atmosphere is much more upbeat and enjoyable, and I was able to learn at my pace and use my gifts. That's why I love Eukarya, is because of the opportunities they give students like myself. When I started, Eukarya gave me the opportunity to help with their chapel services every Wednesday and over the three years, I was able to use my production knowledge to help grow their equipment and put together a professional system. The downside is chapel services have been harder to accomplish due to we don't have our own stage, so we have to set up and tear down every Wednesday in the gym, which takes time and is very hard on students. And with more students down the road, more equipment will be required to accommodate everyone. We're also unable to host our own musicals due to a lack of stage, which causes unnecessary, stress for both cast and crew, and constant workarounds for churches who host us, as seating and scheduling is always an issue. So with the step towards new space, we can continue to grow our production wing, exploring studio recording, and begin to provide production and event resources to both churches and organizations in this area. So if you consider this, and let's get the bid. Thanks. Joan Hughes, followed by Randy Yoder. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Joan Hughes. I am honored to serve as the principal of Eucharia Christian Academy. I want to share with you today a little bit. First, I want to thank you for taking time to hear us, to hear our voices. As you know, we're purchasing, we're trying to purchase the Ehler building. In our profession, we work with families, we work with children, and we work with teenagers every single day. I'm aware that there's been much controversy over our bid. I'd like to take a moment to speak about our bid. I'd like to take a moment to speak about our purpose to you. At the end of the day, no matter what side of the line we fall on in terms of educational beliefs and family beliefs, we all want the same thing. We want the best for our children. We want the best for our community. Private school personally was a game changer for me. I grew up in the D.C. metropolitan area. My parents split up when I was in grade school, and this led to a series of events for my family that went from bad to worse. My family became riddled with grief. Resulting in depression, suicide attempts by my sisters, early pregnancy of my older sister, and failing grades in school for all of us. My sisters dated the town drug dealers, and everybody in the town knew it. That was my destiny. My next door neighbor grew up to be a stripper. That's where I was headed. It was ultimately, my mother saw that I was sinking in my environment, and she decided to use my child support to enroll me in private school. Every day on her hour commute to work into D.C. at Children's Hospital, she would drop me at school, and each day on her way home in the evening, she would pick me up. It was only a matter of time before I began to transition and transform by the sizes of the school, the classrooms that I was able to be a part of, and the care given in the instruction. I began to excel in academics, moving from a D student to taking honors and advanced placement courses. I'm still in close contact with that community and those relationships. I'm sharing that personal story because I want to let you know we are passionate about reaching students. We are passionate about reaching students in your districts and your community who haven't been able to grow in other places. This is not about private versus public school. The realm of education is not a one-size-fits-all formula. There are students that public school serves. They do it beautifully. Our family, I have family members who serve in public schools who teach there. We all have a heart for students, but not everybody thrives everywhere. We work in collaboration with public schools when we have a student that we don't feel we're able to serve. We'll call them up and we share. They do the same thing for us. If all of the public schools, I'm sorry, if all of the private schools and the homeschooling families stopped and closed shutters. The region couldn't handle the influx of students. This isn't about that. We have a crisis in our nation. Frederick County is no different. 31.9% of teenagers have a documented anxiety disorder. 38% of those are females. 26.1 are male. Teen anxiety is at an all time high in America. It interferes with many daily activities. 32.9%. of teens have some type of anxiety disorder. 18.8% of high school students reported having seriously considered suicide in the past year. And one in five children has a diagnosed learning disorder. Let us help the community. Your alternative is to keep a boarded up place that's beaconing and inviting vandals. The surrounding communities are not safe. Do something quickly. I would admonish you to take our bid and help us to help the citizens in your community. Thank you. Randy Yoder. Followed by Roger McKinley. Hi, my name's Randy Yoder and I live in the Opecan District. Mr. Chairman and members of the board, thanks for all you do on behalf of the citizens of Frederick County. I'd like to speak this evening about the value of the sale of the old Aylor building to RCS Eukarya. Value versus dollars. There's been some discussion about how much this property is worth. While the appraised value or the assessed value can be a guide as to what a property might be worth, ultimately, one must put it on the market to see what it's actually worth. And that's exactly what you did. This board opened the property to a bidding process and timeline. RCS investments participated in the process and ultimately submitted a legitimate bid that was appropriate for a Eukarya situation. At the conclusion of the bid, we've announced a new proposal. At the conclusion of the bidding window, which is extended by two weeks, RCS Eukarya was the only entity to have submitted a bid. For all the talk about how much this property is worth, this market spoke and let you know exactly how much it's worth. And it's not worth the appraised or assessed value. We're not asking for a giveaway or special treatment. We're asking you to sell it to the highest bidder whose bid is $300,000 higher than any other bid you receive. Now, in the quest for more dollars, some of you have suggested you might be willing to remove the deed restrictions on the property and allow it to be used for residential purposes. I think this would be incredibly short-sighted. In a few short years, the dollars will be gone and forgotten, but we'll be permanently left with more homes, more congestion, and more cost, none of which this county needs. I talked to a lot of people as I was out canvassing the area, and they said, well, we're not going to give you the money to pay for signatures for our petition, and not one of them wants this property to be turned into residential use. If you do that, we'd be left with very little real value. On the other hand, some of you on this board have been able to look beyond the dollars and see the real long-term value represented in this sale to Eukarya. I applaud you for that. If you follow this long-term path of value, you'll see that you'll be able to use this property for a lot of other purposes. You'll see it be used for the purpose of the community, and you'll see it be used for the purpose of the community. You'll see it be used for the purpose of the community. For years to come, by God's grace, you'll see this property used for its original purpose, as Eukarya Family Center educates the next generation. Instead of seeing houses, you'll see a school. Instead of seeing congestion, you'll see children. Instead of investing in infrastructure, you'll see investment in marriages and families, all while preserving the green space for the community. As county officials, you have a fiduciary responsibility to taxpayers, and I appreciate that you take this seriously. In my view, the sale to Eukarya has more long-term value to the taxpayer than a sale to any developer could ever have. This evening, each of you can vote in favor of this sale to Eukarya and feel good about it. A unanimous vote tonight would be wonderful. You would truly be promoting the long-term well-being of this county. On a different note, school choice has been mentioned numerous times, and I'd like to make the distinction between supporting school choice, and for the sake of school choice, funding school choice. No one here is asking the county to fund school choice. Whether dollars should follow the child instead of the district is a worthy discussion that's happening all over this country, but that's not what we're talking about this evening. It is true, however, that this sale to Eukarya would allow more families to choose which type of education is best for their children, and that's another win for Frederick County. In closing, this sale is good for the taxpayer, it's good for the neighborhoods, it's good for the children, it's good for the parents, and it's good for Frederick County. God bless you and thank you for your time. Roger McKinley, followed by Bailey Means. Welcome, sir. Chairman and board members, my name is Roger McKinley. I'm here with my wife, Linda. We're here, I just kind of shoot from the hip. I don't have a lot of notes. I don't have a lot of facts. I don't have a lot of, I'm learning a lot tonight about it, and all the money and all that stuff that goes on. But I do have an investment. I have three grandkids. I've had two kids who grew up in the public schools here, and they did well. But I would watch my three grandkids grow and learn. I see the kids that are around from small to whatever age in the high schools. They have class. They have honor. They're respectful. They're learning more than just an education, although they're getting an excellent education. I see the administrators are awesome. The teachers are awesome. And that floats right into the kids who are also awesome. And that's what we see. Money. Money is a good thing. Money is a good thing. Money is money. But what is real investment the way I look at it? You know, I've had a lot of old cars. I could have got a good chunk of money for them probably. Or I could donate them. Or I could just about give them away to a friend or whatever. My last day at work, I handed my car keys to one of my people in the carpool. He had a family of four. They only had one car. I said, I don't need any more to commute. You can have it. So now they had two cars they could do something with. I really had no use for it. It wouldn't do me any good. We've lived in Frederick County since 89. We wanted to get away from Fairfax County. The high taxes, the high everything. It just went berserk. And we wanted to get away from the crazy everything. And we come out to Stevens City. And it's growing a little bigger than I'd really like it to and a little faster than I'd really like it to. But it's still a great community. And I look at a school like Eucharia coming into the community and all I can see is good. I can see nothing but a benefit. Because of who they represent. So I can appeal to your hearts tonight. And I want to say to you, we've thrown away money. We've thrown away more money than we could even make on a property like that probably in our lifetimes. And our governments have definitely given away plenty of it and wasted it. But we can do an investment here without even really thinking about that part. Sure, we could probably make a ton of money off of it. And probably waste a lot of it even. But if we want to really invest in our community. We're investing in kids that are going to go out and invest even more into our community. Anyway, my appeal and my wife and I would like to see you all vote for this. Because we see nothing but good out of it. And we've been there many times for many events. And it's just great. We enjoy it. Anyway, thank you for your time. Bailey Means followed by Crystal Means. I'm Bailey Means of the Redbud District. I'm a student at Eukaria. I feel like it's God's will for Eukaria to get the old Aylor School because the community needs more school choices. Eukaria is a huge improvement from my last school. One reason is that Eukaria has a learning center option. It really helped me rebuild memorization and focus skills for the school year. The second reason is that there's a better atmosphere at Eukaria. The third reason is that the teachers and students are super supportive. I've gained lots of mentors and strong friendships that will surely last a lifetime. I greatly appreciate you for your time. And I look forward to hearing your decision. Well done. Crystal Means followed by Kieran Jules. Welcome. Good evening. My name is Crystal Means and I'm a resident of the Redbud District. My husband and I transitioned our children to the academy a few years ago after recognizing that they had bigger needs than were being met. Eukaria has truly been a blessing to my family ever since. I have a now freshman that has thrived in having the ability to advance ahead in his studies and even participates in clubs and athletics that anxiety otherwise riddled him from previously. My middle schooler has been able to take necessary extra time to master any and all areas of her education and has built genuine friendships from classes and athletics that were not prominent in her life before Eukaria. In addition to having this, I have a friend who is a senior in the school district. In addition to having this connection to the academy, I oversee Eukaria Keene's Cubs, their childcare center and preschool for ages six weeks to five years. In a statewide movement, childcare and early education recently transitioned to being under the direction of the Department of Education. This is because in addition to receiving trusted quality care while parents work, it is being recognized just how important early education is for a child's success later in life. Unfortunately, something our locality is severely lacking in is quality. Childcare and full time early education option for families. To give you some insight to that, King's Cubs is currently operating with a wait list that has over a year long for multiple age groups of a weight. Due to this, we have experience being unable to accept families from centers that have closed down without notice or otherwise broken trust with them. At times, children on the wait list are even aging out of the program before they're able to be enrolled. When unable to participate in any early education program, this detail not only impacts the child's development, but also the ability to develop and develop their own skills. This is a very important part of the program. It can prevent a parent from working in a household that may need to rely on two incomes. Should the bid for RCS investments on behalf of Eukarya be accepted, King's Cubs would be provided the opportunity to consider additional location at Aylor. Operating as a preschool for 3 and 4 year olds, or potentially even a center that offers trusted care, starting from infancy alongside that early education need. The positive impact of having quality early education programs is truly immeasurable for our locality's future and future generations. Thank you. As a biological parent, you'll have to have children who are здоровly that oceans long enough to live in contact with boostsörung. We also want to understand the impact of running a�100 insurance plan. You will be able to access health insurance plans through the through your nada application. To help you found who you've come across and who you should reach out to, we hope you will receive free in изxaa declared of credit... See UQC for that lastBEi thank you. Sp bonds worship and Dave and board members my name is Karen Gerald's I grew up in Frederick County and graduated from Jameswood High School the first 23 years of my teaching career were spent right here in Frederick County Public Schools my husband I have resided in a pecan district in Frederick town the subdivision right next to the old elementary old Aylor middle school for 39 years and we've raised two children here our daughter was in the first graduating class at Sharando High School our son attended Sharando for the first two years and then transferred to Sharando Valley Christian Academy where he graduated there we have four grandchildren the two oldest are now sophomores in college one graduated from a public school one graduated from a private school our two other children our grandchildren the youngest one attends a public high school the other attends Mountain View Christian Academy I have no vested interest in Eucharist Christian school so why am I here because I believe in school choice I believe every child should receive the very best education possible to do so they must feel safe in their environment where they where they can learn to learn according to the needs that they have some students are well suited to a large class size while others need a much smaller class in order to meet their educational needs I have witnessed the success of children in both public and private schools school choice increases parent involvement and parent satisfaction. It also provides students with an education tailored to their particular needs. Private schools tend to place much more focus on character and moral education, which many parents feel is a very important aspect of their education. Eucharia is a fine school which offers students great opportunities to learn and grow into responsible young people. They have a wait list of students because the building they are currently in cannot accommodate anymore. I believe in school choice, and I urge you to accept their bid to purchase the former Aylor Middle School. Thank you for your time. McKinley Reams, followed by Josh Phillips. Hello. My name is McKinley Reams from the Gainesboro District. I wanted to share with you how much Eucharia Christian Academy means to me and how tonight's decision can, and will impact the lives of many children and families in our area. I've been attending Eucharia Christian Academy for three years now. When starting at Eucharia as a new fifth grade student, I was so happy to be in a smaller class with such kind classmates and friends who are now more like sisters. I was also happy to have teachers who would not only take the time to help me to achieve in my schoolwork, but also mentor and pray for me daily. I have been so blessed by the positive environment at Eucharia. I am now going into seventh grade, and I'm very excited to meet, to welcome other new students and teachers who will be coming to Eucharia this year. I've also been on Eucharia's volleyball team for the last two years. While I truly enjoy being on the team, last year at times it was difficult because our gym and PE classes had to be canceled when it rained due to a leaky roof, and the gym we rented. I believe if we had our own gym, we would be able to offer more sports for not only our school, but also the community, and maybe we can even host our own volleyball tournaments. I hear there is a waiting list for other children to attend Eucharia because of our lack of space. This makes me sad because Eucharia isn't just an incredible place for learning. It is also a place to build positive and strong friendships, worship God, and to make unforgettable memories. Eucharia is like a second family to me, and it's growing. Eucharia obtaining the old Ehler School would be amazing not only for Eucharia's future, but also for the surrounding areas. It would allow many other children to receive the amazing school experience which I have had. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Well done. Josh Phelps, followed by Amy Bennett. Hi, Josh. Josh Phelps from the Gainesboro District. We have a business in the Stenwald District. Thank you guys for your time and consideration tonight again for listening to everybody talk about the potential purchase of the old Ehler School. I've spent the last couple of weeks calling a lot of you guys, a lot of people that are running for office, and trying to get a feel for everybody's opinion on this topic because I'm obviously biased because my children attend the school, but I wanted to hear what other people had to say. And something that really stuck with me, and stuck with me is the process. And I kind of get stuck on process because I work in the manufacturing business, so it's kind of what I like to do and see. And you had a process, and I guess the question to me is are you going to stick with it or not? I don't think the school board should have ever surplused that property, but they did. That's the process they chose and they stuck with it. I don't think the county should have ever put that property up for sale, and I mean maybe you're required by law to do that, but property is hard to come by, especially for the school. I don't think you should have done that, but you did. So the question is do you respect the process enough to let it go through? The market has spoken up, enough people have talked about the values and all that kind of stuff, I'm not going to get into that. But to me it's a matter of when the next opportunity comes up for a process like this to go through, is that potential bidder going to wonder if their bid is going to be accepted or not? Because, the county is going to just kind of say, yeah, heck with that process, we're not going to worry about that. I just think that's a bad precedent to set. I just would hate to see that happen. Again, I'm very biased because my children attend school and I think this is an amazing opportunity. I think the story behind how this even came to be, a local resident started a business from scratch, who's a product of our public schools, built it up to the point where they can make a middle six figure offer of a donation is amazing, and the fact that you have the opportunity to support that, and tell that story again and again, is something I think you should cherish, and I hope you take the consideration to do that. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Amy Bennett, followed by Dixie Shulin. Hello. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you for listening to each of us. I wanted to sort of piggyback off of what Principal, now my mind's going blank, where Principal Joney had said, mentioned, and I didn't even realize her story that she was going to share. I went to public school. It was great for me. I have a 21-year-old daughter who went to public school in Loudoun County, and she fell through the cracks, and she is leading a very, very difficult life, cannot hold a job, also has a lot of mental health issues. Her father was killed in a motorcycle accident when she was young, and it was a long and difficult process. And she went to public schools in Loudoun County, and she didn't really quite get the help that she needed. She had mentioned things. She talked to counselors. It still wasn't enough. I think partially because maybe it was just too much, maybe too many kids per teacher, maybe just not the right situation. So my son went to public school for kindergarten, first and second grade before COVID hit, and I could already see a struggle. Every teacher, every teacher reached out to me because he has severe ADHD, and he has motor tics and some anxiety. And they reached out to me, each one asking, you know, can we get him some help? Can we do this? Can we do that? And there were some teachers there and counselors that helped him, but it still wasn't enough. And so we decided to move out here because it's more affordable, you know, for our family and then also for putting our son into a private Christian school. Eukaryia has been a godsend. He has the motor tics and he was made fun of a lot in the public schools, and it wasn't always addressed the way it should be. And the kids, a few kids at Eukaryia asked him about them. He explained it as part of who he is. And it was that, that was that. No kids made fun of him. No one singled him out. And I feel like if someone had, I feel like the staff at Eukaryia, the teachers, the caring staff there would have certainly addressed it firmly, but lovingly. My son also has a teacher, Miss Marsha. She's amazing. And she took the time because my son presented a few more challenges that she hadn't met yet. And so she went and sought out the counselor and asked her specifically, can you work with me? Can you teach me what I can do to help Grayson? And he has felt so comfortable and confident there. His grades are excelling. He is just doing a fantastic job. He feels accepted, loved as a student, a child, a community member. And I feel that I would love to see other parents have this opportunity because the school is growing. I would love to see other parents be able to take their children who have these struggles and put them in smaller classes and be able to have these children feel loved, cared for, special attention to. Miss Marsha often says that Grayson is one of the sweetest kids. He has these difficult challenges, but he has a beautiful heart. And he's a sweet, sweet boy. And this environment has helped him to just grow exponentially, emotionally, mentally, and academically. And I would just love to see Eukaryia receive this, you know, win this bid and receive this school so that many other parents in the area can also have this opportunity for their kids who may have challenges. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Dixie. follow by Travis. Go, go. Welcome. Hello. I am Dixie from the back Creek district. I'm here to express my strong support for the restoration of the old Euler building and propose establishment of Eukaryia within. I've already shared my personal covered story to each member of the board, but the abbreviated version is had it not been for Eukaryia heavy decisions and our family would have had to be made if our employ. If our employment just kept continuing. our employment took precedence over each child's well-being as we were both deemed essential during COVID. Likewise, our extended family the same. We also valued our contribution to the community through our work in both the electrical and medical fields in the difficult times. Eukarya naturally gravitated many families in similar shoes during those years. We found Eukarya and it has become an integral part of our family and much more than just something to keep our children busy while we are at work. Our children who help us in our business and on the farm are energized by outdoor and hands-on activities and Eukarya allows them to flourish with these strengths and we certainly think this will be an asset in their continuing futures. As a community, we should be appreciative of Eukarya's ability to allow parents such as ourselves to keep the community fed and warm and all those essential things during that COVID times. We are still here and we love that we are able to make our decision each year of what is best for each of our children. When considering the future use of the old Aylor Middle School, it is important that this should not be compared to commercial property. This is a misconception and I do think the mindset that they are giving away some lucrative subdivision really needs to disappear. In some ways, I see that it should be treated as a set-aside or a park with the given restrictions and current zoning. It really can only be permitted to be the same use unless everybody is up for another year or two of meetings similar to the Rush Church Lane to allow for a competent purchaser that knows he can handle the demolition content. The demolition costs will get county approval and neighbor support. Meanwhile, county liability and utility costs continue throughout this entire process. Frederick County Middle School sold for $3.9 million but was zoned for low density residential. 587 people are ultimately likely to call this home with 160 age-restricted apartments. It is unlikely to find a senior community that doesn't have a public school bus run through it. Statistics actually show that more than 10% of children under the age of two are living with grandparents. In closing, I feel like you may consider that you think that the bet is too low, but I think you're also going to find the population that might feel betrayed that they were preached a saga of a building being uninhabitable so they put forth 50 million for a new school, but now only to find out the county thinks the original can be utilized. Maybe some that are not going to be happy to learn utilities are continuing at maybe around $5,000 a month in lawn care, etc. Maybe some who are going to think that they're short on money. I think that they there should be a heightened security as break-ins keep occurring, decreasing the building value and likely increasing utilities and jeopardizing liability. Maybe some who don't ever want their family or loved ones and what they deem to toxic building. Maybe some that who don't want more housing or an industrial park or commercial development. Or maybe even the ones who don't want more traffic to sit at extra light cycles. Wading through these muddy waters to decipher the perfect resolution may be impossible and very timely. So I do think the path of least resistance is going to be difficult. I think the path of least resistance is very obvious by the signatures received and the full room of Eukarya Alliance tonight. The new AILR opened its doors two years ago. Time is of the essence for our Eukarya family and additionally for the county. Follow the process, make the decision tonight. Travis Shulin followed by Anna Cutshall. Followed by Anna Cutshall. Travis Shulin, Back Creek District. Thank you for your time. I'll be brief because some of the stuff I got to say has already been said. I understand it's a heavy decision but the taxpayer community was under the impression. They were releasing health liability with many ill children in the old AILR. And this justified the new construction of a $52 million AILR middle school. Old schools and buildings are never ending labor. Never stops. The money never stops going into them. The city of Winchester, the old John Kerr, they paid $500,000 just for the engineering and architecture alone. $13 million for industrial development. $13 million for industrial development. $13 million for industrial development. And this funding was required. This funding required business contribution, city council funding, state and federal aid. I know that's the city. But in 2004, put $10 million in Jameswood Middle School to renovate it. Even after the asbestos removal, additional funding was still necessary to update security, handicap, accessibility, energy efficiency, sprinklers, etc. 2.7 in Millbrook just for roof renovations and it's new. Old Gainesboro. School was the same way. It was in need of restoration. And it sold for $210,000 just to get rid of it. So the independent school bought the old fire hall, Round Hill Fire Hall, because there was nothing much left to do with it. It cost for $450,000 but it was more of a commercial type property. And then the former county offices in the Feltoner building were swapped to Kent Street due to extravagant costs for renovation. Excuse me. It cost $42 million to supposedly fix Fairfax Pike. And it's already backlogged coming to and from the old dealer. I don't think it could handle anymore the influx of traffic if you have more houses or industrial or whatever else you wanted to put there at the old dealer. If you release yourself from the liability, even at best rumors of carbon dioxide and other concerns are never going to disappear if we were to fulfill future government building needs. Trust passers breaking windows from being vacant and nobody around is only going to increase the already substantial utility bills and cause many, excuse me, cause more money in repairs. My family and myself thank you for your time. We understand it's a difficult decision and I hope we can be made tonight. Anna Cutshaw followed by Anthony Clair. Welcome. Hello. My name is Anna Cutshaw. Thank you. I'm a resident of the city of Winchester, a previous student of the public school system and a current student at Eucharia Christian Academy. Throughout my life, my mental and physical health has limited my ability to live and to learn. I have previously been diagnosed with severe depression and currently diagnosed with anxiety disorder and ADHD for which I take prescribed medications. I have struggled with thoughts of suicide and attempted suicide. And I truly believe that the only reason I stand before you today are these three. God, family, and Eucharia Christian Academy. And so, if you would allow me, I would like to present to you a tribute letter that I have written to Eucharia on behalf of a once lost girl. Dear Eucharia, my home away from home. I had never known friendship until I knew you. Nor had I known my true potential, worth, or identity until your lessons ingrained the thoughts and words of God into my heart. I was alone, without hope. Quite literally on the brink of extinction. I was alone, without hope. Quite literally on the brink of extinction. But you, Eucharia. Your staff who welcomed me as a member of the family from the first time I walked through the door. You, Eucharia, with your heart for God and for others. The students you shared with me are the closest I have ever felt to belonging. You gave me courage. You gave me hope. You gave me love. But not the love that the world gives, but true love. The love of Christ. A love so penetratingly expressive and beautifully outmatched I had not experienced in all my searching for its chief. You gave that to me. You brought me back to God. You are my whole. Thank you, Eucharia. You will never know how much you mean to me. Love, Honor. Thank you. Anthony. Anthony Clare followed by Jeff Hildreth. Good evening. Thank you for your time. I worked in D.C. today and drove straight here from all the way from D.C. for my two-minute spiel. So I appreciate you hearing my story. I hope you enjoyed it. And I hope you'll join me again next week. I'm going to be back soon. I'm going to be back soon. I hope you enjoyed it. I hope you enjoyed it. I hope you enjoyed it. I hope you enjoyed it. I hope you enjoyed it. I hope you enjoyed it. I've worked in D.C. today and drove straight here from all the way from D.C. for my two-minute spiel, so I appreciate you hearing me. My name is Anthony Clare. I live in the Ope入 nacional 허시기� brewer의 도토 비트이. Opein district. I was born and raised in Winchester. I lived here my whole life. I am married. I'm father of four. We currently reside in Frederick County, probably. My oldest, which is the only one of school age, attended Eucharia Christian Academy initials ECA for the first two school years of his life. I work mainly in cat letting. Aussie. I work mainly in cat letting. The reason why I stayed in Frederick County is because not only is the Shenandoah Valley a beautiful place to live, but our community really values alternative educational options. We have a major homeschooling community, and Frederick County youth attend over 10 different private schools in the area. Some are religiously affiliated, some aren't. We all know that the public educational system is constrained and overwhelmed with challenges and obstacles that unfortunately haven't been resolved since I went to school. I went to Winchester Public City Schools K-12. I had a lot of challenges, cultural challenges, educational challenges and setbacks that unfortunately a smaller class size and building more schools isn't going to solve or address these issues adequately. I only wish. A place like Eukaryote Christian Academy had existed when I was going to school starting in 96. I wonder what the impact it would have had on my life, and I look forward to the impact it has on my children's life. Though we are a one income household, we make the financial sacrifice to put our kids in a place like Eukaryote. Faithfully paying taxpayer dollars to support our public school kids and system. We are a small school, but we are a big part of the community. We are a big part of the community. We are a big part of the community. While also pocketing and budgeting others for our own. I feel so passionately about Eukaryote Christian Academy, I decided to make yet another financial sacrifice and buy a bus that was on auction and donated to the school. To further support their mission and activities. This isn't a public school versus private school kids. Frederick County youth is one youth, one body, and we are here to support all of them involved. When we look at various values in education, how a school chooses their mascot, ECA chose a lion, which was very fitting. It's a biblical imagery of the rule and majesty of our Lord Jesus Christ, which my wife and I feel is of great value to the students. Their style of education, ECA is the only classical school in the area, and for those who don't know, that is a style of education that matches what psychologists are discussing as the child's nationality. The school's natural growth and development cycle. The power of small class sizes. The power of greater parental involvement in our own child's education and minimal government intervention. I look forward to the board voting yes for the school to receive this and empowering local private schools to further Frederick County youth and the development we want to do there. Expanding school choice for all Frederick County youth is ultimately beneficial for the school. This is about our youth because they're our future. Thank you. Thank you. Jeff Hildreth followed by Christine Stevens. Welcome, sir. Good evening. My name is Jeff Hildreth. I live in Berkeley County, West Virginia. My wife Melanie and I work in downtown Winchester. We love living in the valley, and if it weren't for Eukarya, we wouldn't be here. When we decided we wanted to leave D.C. after 20 years for the school, we decided we wanted to leave. We were a smaller town. The first thing we looked for in each place we considered was a Christian school that would be a positive and academically rigorous environment for our three kids. One of which you can kind of see the top of her head here. We toured half a dozen schools between D.C. and Morgantown and researched countless more. We had multiple spreadsheets involved. Eukarya stood out from the start. We loved the classical influence, the academic and extracurricular offerings, especially the emphasis on practical skills and the trades. Not to mention the warm family feel. Once our kids were accepted for the 2022-23 school year, we put an offer in on a house and moved to the area. One thing we observed when we visited Eukarya was the clear dedication to the valley community among the staff and families there. And since becoming part of the school ourselves, we can say with confidence that Eukarya is genuinely committed to partnering with and supporting families not only in the academy but in Frederick County and beyond. Our family urges the board to accept Eukarya's bid for the Eukarya School. We are very grateful. We accept Eukarya's bid for the old Aylor property. This community is so special. It has so much to offer. And school options like Eukarya make a beautiful place even more attractive for people coming to the area, especially given the school's demonstrated commitment to supporting and serving the families when they arrive. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Christine Stevens, followed by Pete Fravel. Welcome. Hello, everyone. My name is Christine Stevens. I am a student at Eukarya. I am a representative of Stevens City Town Council. I want to share a couple things with you tonight. This sale to private entity, to this private entity should not go through. Public property should stay public. This school property should not be sold outside of public use. This is a cherished location for our community. Sale to a private buyer would strip the community of open space and public parks. The sale of this property even to a private school removes public use of the sports fields and park lands. If the county wants to sell the property, they should sell it to another public entity to keep this community jewel intact and serving the community. The potential for a public use site for additional recreation, a community gymnasium, space for other public use sites, and other public use sites. Thank you. We would like to premise that frozen properties have to be kept for other public uses. The county should endeavor to keep this property in public service and if it doesn't want to, offer it up for other public purposes. The City of Winchester runs a before and after school program for children during the school year. Our county does the same. However, the City also runs a full day summer camp program for children of working parents during the summer. are only available to city residents. There is no such summer program or resource for parents in the county during the summer. This is a tremendous burden on single parents or dual working parents. This property is the perfect location in our county for such a use. Outdoor space for outdoor programs and gymnasiums for rainy days. I ask you to reconsider the things that are before you on this bid tonight. Thank you. Pete Fravel followed by Mariah Smith. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Good evening, I'm Pete Fravel. Bass Hooter, Aylor, and then James Wood. Fast forward a couple years, I am now a retired lieutenant colonel in the Air Force, moving back to my hometown of Steven City to continue serving my community. As a town council member of Steven City. I would like to expand on Ms. Steven's comments. The old Aylor School complex has been an integral part of our community for decades. And we still believe it has much more to offer our local government. The town of Steven City is heavily involved with all aspects of the community within our Frederick County. For example, we host an annual free festival for the community known as the Newtown Heritage Festival, which celebrates Steven City's heritage of being the second oldest town in the Shenandoah Valley, and the first town to have a new town. We also host the Newtown Heritage Festival in the Shenandoah Valley with our founding in 1758. For many years now, we have also hosted Schrander High School's Homecoming Parade and Bonfire. The town arranges to close US Route 11 and open our grounds and facilities for this heavily attended event. Almost all of the students and families that enjoy this annual rite are not residents of our town, but we are all part of Southern Frederick County's community. As a town, we believe that the city is a place of peace, and we are a part of the city. As a town, we believe that the city is a place of peace, and we are a part of the city. As a town, we believe that the city is a place of peace, and we are a part of the city. As a town, we believe that the city is a place of peace, and we are a part of the city. As a town, we believe we have a responsibility to nurture this sense of community, and we firmly believe that the old Ehlers School complex has a role to play in this. By acquiring the old Ehlers School complex, Stevens City, a town made up of Frederick County residents, will seek departments within Frederick County to add needed space for public services. It becomes a waypoint for the county in its southern half. If the property is acquired by the town, we work to make public office space available for offices such as parks and recreation, work to return the satellite office for the sheriff's department and the police department, work to open portions of property for public recreation and use, and we would work with nonprofits that are in need of temporary and long-term space. The potential list of positive impacts our community can go on and on. In closing, I would like to thank the City of Stevens City and Frederick County residents. We believe that the old school complex should be kept by the citizens of the county for public use. Thank you. Mariah Smith followed by Regina Speigert. My name is Mariah Smith. I'm a town council member for Stevens City and a resident of the Opecan District. I'm also a retired Army Lieutenant Colonel, and I chose to make my home here, and I'm also a retired Army Lieutenant Colonel, and I chose to make my home here, and I'm also a retired Army Lieutenant Colonel, and I chose to make my home here, after my 20 years in the military. I love this community, and after being sent all over the world, this was the safe place to come home. I'm here tonight to advocate to Council that the sale of this valuable public asset should not go to a private entity, and I say that with very deep respect for the quality and important work of the school. But as a public servant, I believe the Old Aylor School should be developed by the public for the good of the community. for the good of the community. And I believe that the Old Aylor School should be developed by the public for the good of the community. And I believe that the Old Aylor School should be developed by the public for the good of the community. On a personal note, one thing veterans struggle with when they leave the military is the loss of community. It can be incredibly isolating. But I was fortunate in that I found an amazing community here, and I feel like it's just proved tonight by everything that I'm seeing everyone advocate for the things that they believe in. And this is why I joined town council. I want to continue to serve to help the people and place that I care about. And as I listen to everyone who has been here tonight, I am sure that they will be able to help. And this is why I joined town council. I want to continue to serve to help the people and place that I care about. And as I listen to everyone tonight, I am sure that they will be able to help. And as I listen to everyone tonight, I know that we are all looking for ways to enrich our community. We should not remove this public property from the public realm, but rather we should look for a multitude of collaborative and community uses, just as Councilman Stevens and Councilman Fravo described. It would be an honor to work alongside the county and my fellow Stevens community to serve this community and to support our community and our community. And as I said, there is nothing that can be done without a community. And I believe that the Old Aylor School is a community ofturk, It would be an honor to work alongside the county and my fellow Stephen City council members to help this valuable asset become something enriching for the entire county. Thank you. Regina Swigert, followed by Michael Diaz. Welcome. I'm Regina Swigert-Smith. I'm 25 years in Stephen City and in Frederick County, second term on town council. So I was reelected. I did something right. And one of the things I learned early on in my career from the lawyer I worked for was don't get off the subject when you're writing a brief. It's called a brief for a reason. Let me see if I can end or sort of try to end some of the marathon quality of today's hearing. It's been wonderful. There could be no one except somebody who can't hear who could possibly doubt the quality of the school that has bid on the property. That is simply not the point of the hearing. We are not evaluating that school versus some other school versus a public school. This is a charter school. We are talking about the sale of a piece of property. It is public property. As a taxpayer in Frederick County, I am one of the owners of that public property. And I would like it to continue to be public. I want it to be worked on, developed, however, to remain a public property. And I believe it is your fiduciary duty. And I believe it is your fiduciary duty to me and to all of the taxpayers of Frederick County to make certain that that happens. Thank you. Michael Diaz, followed by Amy Goddard. Welcome, sir. Good evening. Thank you very much for having me. I'll keep this very brief. You have a very tough decision this evening. The citizens of the county where this property is located would like to keep the property as a public use. The town has submitted a bid in the amount of $400,000. And we'd like for you. To consider that. Uh, no, we would have submitted it earlier had we known that the bidding process was reopened. We want to thank you, the board for hearing from all citizens here. And, uh, you have a tough decision ahead of you. So thank you very much for your time. Amy Goddard, followed by Josiah Goddard. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Amy Goddard, and I am a parent of four. I have had a recent graduate at Eukarya, and I have two more returning this fall. And my youngest going to the homeschool co-op there. Um, just wanted to share my story of encountering the lovely Eukarya. In January 2022, my family and I returned from an eight-year stint in New Zealand. This was eight years without coming back to America. No visits. And most likely, we never thought we'd come back. Actually, we were quite happy. But that January. In 2022, we were doing just that. You know, they say you can take the American out of America, but you can't take the America out of the American. But I dare say after not visiting a Walmart for eight years, the words, no worries used as frequent as how are you and trading in shoes for Hobbit feet, I realized I had indeed definitely morphed into something else. As you can imagine, if this shock was great for me upon. Returning the effects on my teenagers that had been ripped away from everything they knew for eight years was even greater. One in particular, my daughter, she was very angry and very sad. And as a parent, it was a horrible thing to see. It was a very dark time. Months passed and it didn't didn't go away before moving. We had been homeschooling. How are things going to work out now? Everything seems so sprawling and busy. How would we find our people? Our community has been discussed just before. Um, I'm not sure if you've heard of the American Home School Program. I'm not sure if you've heard of the American Home School Program. I'm not sure if you've heard of the American Home School Program. I'm not sure if you've heard of the American Home School Program. I'm not sure if you've heard of the American Home School Program. Um, my daughter, she became more withdrawn and continued to not find her place and the war waged on through friends. We discovered you carrier and by the fall of 2022, she was attending the academy day by day, bit by bit. My daughter thought she smiled again. She laughed. She made friends. She grew in confidence. Her love of learning was nurtured by caring and intentional teachers. I really believe that God. I used you carry a Christian Academy as a resource to save my daughter from such a traumatic time. It became a place to thrive for her to thrive and who could who God created her to be. And it became a community right there. And we know that is hard to come by. Everyone has the comments about the money, the problems, the public, all these things. But if you peel back the layers, peel back, don't look at the mass. Look at the face. Look at the individuals. See them. See their face. She's not the only one that's been blessed. There's so many more there. They have stories and there can continue to be more. My hope and prayer today is that by hearing these testimonies, you will vote in favor of the purchase of a life where you carry a Christian Academy and investment in bringing hope and a future for those yet to come. Thank you. Josiah Goddard. Followed by Carol Hoffman. Welcome, sir. Thank you. And good evening. Greetings. Esteemed members of the Board of Supervisors. My name is Josiah Goddard and I reside in the city of Winchester. I first heard of Eukarya when I was living in New Zealand and I was about to move back to the States. A friend of mine, Cademan Reams, told me he had recently started going to Eukarya and what a great school it was. In January of 2022, we arrived back in America. I met more Eukarya students and got involved in the school. I loved it and wanted more of this community in the form of a school. Since going full time seemed financially impossible, my parents and I looked at the possibility of me going part time my senior year. However, through some amazing God-given blessings, my sister and I were able to attend ECA full time last year. I was so excited. I joined the student council. Got to know the school. Got to know the awesome people there. And went full force into this new learning experience. It was a challenge since I had been home schooled my whole life. But I pushed through and am better for it. This might seem cliche, but Eukarya isn't just a building. Eukarya isn't even a place. This, these people behind me, this is Eukarya. We share ideas. We give speeches. We pray together. Learn together. Love together. Debate together. Create together. Laugh together. Feed off one another. Eukarya isn't a religious organization. And it's the opposite of a snobby, exclusive private school. Eukarya is a home. A cultivator of the true, the good, and the beautiful. A place for children to thrive. Don't you think children need a safe and loving place to thrive? Especially in this day and age. Eukarya offers an education and an environment that's so valued and sought after that we are running out of room and have a waiting list. Currently the school is physically unable to fit more students. Unable to expand and grow. Unless. Unless you allow us to buy the old Aylor building. Or like a caterpillar, we're like a butterfly, we're like a butterfly. We're like a butterfly. We're like a butterfly. We're like a butterfly. We're like a butterfly. We're like a butterfly. We're like a butterfly. I'm a butterfly. I brought you back to give you- A butterfly so sweet. Technical impact and touch. Cheap παrwa !!! Finat Flash pessoa Unfreakable тр Un holders Unt Valerie My name is Carol Hoffman, and I'm a resident of the Shawnee District. Firstly, I want to thank all of you for all your service to the community. I know it takes more than what you do in your regular lives, so I thank you. I've seen a bit of grimacing when we talk about the personal stories of how Eukarya has affected each and every person here and how it's not relevant. But I would like to submit that if our community isn't personal, then what is it? My perspective on this issue is twofold. As I mentioned, I'm a resident of the Shawnee District in Stevens City, not far from the school, right down the road. And I'm also an employee, a teacher at Eukarya. My family moved into this area as a result of the organization. And I would like to submit a couple thoughts. I would like to submit a couple thoughts in my support of honoring the process that was put out and would ask that you honor that process. One is that we've heard quite often through the night of choice. And I would like to just reiterate that Frederick County is a county of choice. However we feel about it, there are many choices of education in Frederick County. And so this is allowing another. Growth in that choice. We have while educating our five now grown and graduated children, we've utilized the public school system. We have homeschooled and we've used the private school system as well. And that was as per the needs of each one of our family. Each one needed something differently. So when you hear these personal stories, what you're hearing. Excuse me. It's my teacher. Are the needs of the people who live in your districts. It's their needs. And they're saying that this is something that they need. And so when you are allocating the use or the sale of a property, you are. This isn't just about money. It is. We thank you for being fiduciary. Fiduciary responsible, responsible. But a community is so much more than that as well. You have gone. Through a process and we have honored that process. We're asking you all to honor that as well. I can talk in front of a lot of kids, but this is a little harder. So thank you for your patience. The growth of you carrier will continue to provide a choice for the residents in each one of your districts. And as you've heard of other people coming even from other states who come and they buy gas here and they buy food here and they put into our communities. It is very relevant. They will bring new families into our community, whether through relocation or by commuting. Also, I want to say that having been involved with you carrier for 10 years, I can attest to the heart of this organization for the community. This is not some private club. As you've heard, many people say there is such a heart for the community within this organization. There's a deep intrinsic value to a presence like that in our community. I just want to say that there are very quickly. There are many options of helping foster kids tutoring in the community. We do offer a summer camp. We want to offer an open gym for the community among many other services that we would like to provide for the community. And as much as we have school choice, we also want other services to be provided. Other than just what public service offers as well. Thank you very much. Patty Solenberger followed by Marlisa Ayer. Good evening. I'm Patty Solenberger and I'm a resident of the Shawnee District. I'm a lifelong resident of Frederick County. I attended Aylor School a long time ago. And I'm a resident of the Shawnee District. I'm a lifelong resident of Frederick County. I am in favor of Eukarya getting the school because I believe schools are anchors in our community. And that school helped make me the person that I am today. I went from Steven City Elementary, which basically we were all packed in and jammed in, to having a gym, a place where we could actually eat lunch together as a student body, and have plays. We played basketball in the gym, not very well. I ran the track, not very well. But I had all of those experiences in that school along with thousands of other Frederick County residents that are still in Frederick County today. And I can go anytime with my grandchildren to every school that I attended in Frederick County and share experiences with them. Like my science teacher squeezing a sponge full of dirty water over my head when I fell asleep in class. That really happened. And I think that Eukarya will honor this community and the citizens of this community by allowing this community to use the grounds and to use the school. It's an awesome building. It is... All the problems are taken care of. It can still have life in it. And people that went to school there can say, I went to that school. And they can share their experiences with their children. I also really have thought about this as a business person. And I would encourage the county to put in the contract that they have a right of refusal. That one, if Eukarya ever sells the building, you guys buy it back for what you sold it to them for. Plus the cost of the renovations. That is a win-win for the county. It's a win-win for Eukarya School. And I would really encourage you guys to vote yes on this process. Thank you. Thank you. Marlisa. Marlisa Ayer followed by Chris Ayer. Welcome. Hi. My name is Marlisa Ayer of the Back Creek District. I'm a lifelong resident of Frederick County. And I'm happy to raise my five children here. I would like to ask the board to accept Eukarya Christian Academy's bid for purchase of the old Aylor School. As the only timely bid. The only legitimate bid at a public auction. We currently have three adult children who attended Eukarya and went on to attend University of Virginia. Grove City College in Pennsylvania. And Grand Canyon University in Arizona. Our youngest two boys who were adopted from Ethiopia have attended Eukarya for the past ten years. Each of our five kids had diverse needs even within the same family. In addition to Eukarya, our kids also attended public school and were homeschooled for a brief time. We have been thankful to live in a community that supports school choice for diversity. And we are grateful to have Eukarya's support for our first learners. Eukarya currently offers valuable daycare and before and after school care to working parents in our community. Tutoring and speech and occupational therapy for students with special learning needs. As well as services that support the entire family in areas of spiritual and mental health. Eukarya's global emphasis provides opportunities for our students to partner with schools overseas. And to travel abroad on service based trips. I believe that as our students experience the blessing of serving those who live in conditions of poverty. They return home looking for ways to continue to serve and impact those who are less fortunate right here in our community. Through your acceptance of our bid for purchase, you are recognizing the complexity of the individuals within the community that you serve. Eukarya provides services that strengthen our community. By recognizing the holistic needs of children and their families. Eukarya does not intend to replace the important work of the public school system. But rather provides an alternative learning environment for those who need it. Resulting in a community full of robust learners with a sense of purpose. And a drive to positively impact their community for a lifetime. Thank you so much for your time and for your consideration. God bless you all. Chris Ayer followed by Mike Kidwell. Welcome sir. Hi, my name is Chris Ayer. I'm in the Back Creek District. I actually thought I was signing in. I wasn't planning on saying anything. But listening to everybody, they've all said the things that I've been thinking all these weeks. Um. I. Recently. Uh. Was given the opportunity to co-teach a class that you carry on personal finance. So as I've been listening to the arguments, I started to think about this from a personal finance standpoint. Um. If I had a piece of land and I could sell it for say, let's say three million dollars. If that's the value of this supposedly. Uh. Well, a penny saved is a penny earned, right? You see, you, if you don't have to spend a penny, you save it. Benjamin Franklin didn't actually say that, but he said something similar. The savings for the county are enormous. To build a new school, Stacy Haga is correct. It was 50 to 130 and it's above that now. You'd have a hundred million in building a new school. You have to staff a school. That's what? Three million. A year, maybe? Buses. Uh. Additional services. I think one of the things that I keep hearing is a lot of the kids that come to Eukarya are there because they need additional services. Our two youngest needed ESL. The Ethiopian ESL, seriously, that doesn't exist. They thrived at Eukarya because they got individual education. Because they got individual teaching that supplemented their need. So a lot of these kids that are coming to Eukarya aren't just a $50,000 teacher salary. They're an $80,000 to $100,000 specialist salary. So if you said to me, if I were selling a piece of land and you said, hey, I'll give you $3 million or I'll save you $100 million immediately and I'll save you $10 million a year. I'll take the $100 million. Thank you very much. I think it's pretty clear that the services Eukarya provides for Frederick County and the community is a huge savings long term. I don't think there's any question about that. There's intrinsic. There's things you can't calculate. The stories that you hear, there are probably kids that come from other schools that would have similar stories. But they're so passionate. I mean. I can't imagine this happens at every school. It didn't happen at. Let me go back. I graduated from James Wood in 92. It was the only high school at the time. I didn't have this experience. I want all my kids. I want 800 kids to have this experience. Right now we're limited to 260 in our facilities. How many could we have? How many more kids could we serve there? It's just. That is. You can't put a dollar value on that. But just from a personal thought. Just from a personal finance standpoint. I would like to submit that I would rather have 100 million and 10 million a year than 3 million up front. Thank you. Thank you. Mike Kidwell. Mike Kidwell followed by Casey Hockman. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Mike Kidwell. I'm a resident of Frederick County's Oak Pecan District. I came up here to say a whole bunch of things. And I've heard so much tonight that has illuminated this choice for me. One of the things that's illuminated is that I'd like to congratulate all the people that spoke on the other side. And the other side for me is going to be for you guys to vote to accept $300,000. I am on the opposite side. I think you have a responsibility, as several people have said better than I'm going to right now, to exercise fiduciary responsibility in my behalf and in everybody's behalf here who lives in Frederick County. I do want to correct some misconceptions that I think that exist here. One is there's been a lot of talk about using that property for some sort of purpose. A property for some sort of residential development. My exploration of the facts of the matter are is that there's a covenant to the deed that says it cannot be. And that's the original deed that came to Frederick County when it came to be our property, your property. So it cannot be done into houses without something major taking place. The U.K. The U.K. The U.K. USS. The U.K, USS. USS. USS. So I guess what I'm saying to you is when they say they're not asking for funding, that's exactly what they're asking for. And I appreciate it. I'm a product of private schools, religious private schools. And I think excellent education, all the stories I heard here tonight touched me. They impressed me. It is impressive. But impressive does not make it correct from a standpoint of the people that are sitting here representing the districts and the county of Frederick in Virginia. That's not what this is about. It's about selling a piece of property. Another word I heard numerous times was the word process. Well, one part of the process that is perfectly legitimate is for you to reject the bid. And that's what I urge you to do tonight. Thank you very much for your time. Casey Hockman, followed by Jody Yeagey. Welcome, gentlemen. Hello. My name is Casey Hockman. This is my son, Jacob. A while back, we had to just make a decision on our schooling process with him. And it was really difficult. We were trying to homeschool him. And we realized we just couldn't do it by ourselves. And we came along with the school, and they really helped us out. He's really smart but incredibly hard. And he's really committed. And so one of the things that's been a huge blessing was the school. So there's the emotional side of it, yes. But it's also the aspect of the financial side for me. It's the fact that how expensive would it be to turn this into anything else? You have people talk about it's worth $23 million. Well, I bought an acre in town for $40,000. You know why? Because there was a bid. I was the highest bidder. Nobody else bid on it. That's the process. There was only one bidder. I could come in and say, now, okay, I'll bid $400,000. I'll bid $150,000 right now. It doesn't count. The bidding was public. Everybody knew it. If it was set up for building houses, that's a whole other issue. Well, okay, is the septic systems supplied for that? Is Stevens City willing to spend $50 million, $100 million on new systems? There's a whole other process of going through that. But the bidding was out. It is the process. Now it's your decision. I think it's an opportunity today that we could be on the map of making history that we allow in this school to buy this property. I think it's an awesome opportunity. I think it's an awesome opportunity for families like mine, one house income that we sacrifice so we can give my children a better future than what I had. And that's one of the biggest things about today and why I'm up here talking. You have to learn about the future. You have to learn about the future. And the biggest thing I've learned from today is that the opportunity that we have is the fact that the opportunity that we have is the opportunity for kids in the future to learn at a school. It's also the aspect of there was a bid. Everybody knew it. It came in. I bought property for a couple hundred bucks in Bluemont. Tried to find land in Bluemont for a few hundred dollars. I bought it. You know why? I showed up. I bid on it. showed up to bid on it and I got it. I followed what was supposed to be done and they had to sell it to me. So that's it. Thank you very much and I know it's a hard decision but I think today we have a opportunity to make history to show that we can do this. We can work with the private sector and the public sector together and we can make this happen. Thank you very much. Jodi Yeagey. I think I might have good news, am I? You are the last speaker. Welcome. All right, with that welcome. I'm Jodi Yeagey. I'm from the Redbud District. First and foremost, this board is elected to represent the constituents of this county, of Frederick County. We've had a lot of speakers tonight who've been elected to represent the community. We've had a lot of speakers tonight who've been elected to represent the community. We've had a lot of speakers tonight who've been from the services and the awesome community we have in Frederick County, but the reality is the taxpayers in Frederick County is who you were elected to represent. And the constituents of this county elected you to make sound, uncompromised fiscal decisions based on a strategic plan. I would like to see the board delay any irreversible decision on the sale of land without a solid five to ten year plan to address the overcrowding, and the public schools that we have the responsibility to address in our county. Can you in good faith this evening take a bid that is well under valuation, knowing that we have immediate needs in our public schools for a high school and elementary schools? Have you worked with the school district and other county entities to unequivocally say that this land won't be needed in the next few years? Tonight's decision is not a vote on school choice. As so many have spoken to, it's also not a referendum on the quality of education that Eucharia can provide. It is purely and simply about fiscal responsibility and planning for the future. It would be a blatant abuse of power for Supervisor Lockridge to not recuse herself from the vote this evening. Thank you for your time, and may you continue with the meeting. I was the last one, Mr. Phillips. Thank you. All right. How would the board like to proceed? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I will make a motion to accept the bid. I'll second that motion. Motion and a second. Is there a discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to go through and lay out some thoughts on why I'm making such a motion. First of all, there's the issue of transparency. So I'm reading something that came from staff. I'm curious if there are concerns, I'm wondering if they're opinions. I think these are all kind of outrosなるほどes, but I think you may want to understand on this particular matter, rather than re-create you to a more конт watly bill. This is a bill the town hall and I have heard of. The position of the comunidad is for the son of any non-aremos' member, I will never be an trash mouth into teveal's hands. I would like to be an outspoken parent in the community, and I just want to at that point. I mean, my mother was with me, so I was a huge fan and Don Elliott was with me. And it was an honor to try and bring that division here. I asked Ko ne ve too. Wait it was not dark. website on April 21st 2023 and there's a link for that. An ad was placed in the Winchester Star on April 28th 2023 advertising the proposed sale of the property. The county would be receiving sealed bids. Two pre-bid site visits were held on the property. The first site visit was held on Wednesday May 3rd at 10 o'clock to 1230. A second site was held on Wednesday May 10th from 10 to 12. Bids for the property were originally scheduled to be due June 2nd. However, the submission deadline was extended to June 16th to give staff adequate time to scan and then to scan and share pertinent documents received from Frederick County Public Schools with the prospective bidders and for those bidders to have time to review that information. In addition, several questions were asked during the two pre-bid visits that staff had to complete and the answers to those. A single bid was received by the deadline on Friday June 16th at 2 o'clock and that bid was for the 300,000 we have here today. So that's an opening comment. When I first heard this bid I thought it was low. So I'm just gonna have a friendly conversation with people that are in favor of and opposed to this. I think that you know as a public official I'll be glad to give you out my thoughts on where we were. According to staff the current zoning for that is for residential use, firehouses, although there's another one of you, there's firehouses, libraries, church and school use. That was the current zoning for this area. There's a firehouse about a mile away and there's a library about two miles away. When we started to go through the process of what could you do, the first issue was what would you do for schools or sorry what would you do for housing. Personally as many of you probably know I am opposed to having new housing unless the impact fees of those houses are paid for. And those impact fees run about twenty seven thousand dollars and that does not include the cost for roads. So you've heard me say the last couple years that you're gonna build a new house then the impact to the county ought to be covered. Those impact fees are significant. On the 22 acres here if you had a ten units townhouses, ten units per acre, the cost would be about five point five million dollars. If you put in single-family homes on this land, depending upon the size of the lot from 0.2 acres to 0.3 acres, would run two to three million dollars. If you had a combination of those of those items you're sitting about four million dollars. We had a appraisal done that somebody here made the comment of was about three point five million dollars. That would be with the school gone, the cost to take down the school is some place in the neighborhood is six hundred thousand according to our appraiser. So if a person came and said fine I'd like to go and build housing here, the cost to the county is going to be running someplace between two to five million dollars. And if you made a offer of arbitrary number fifty million dollars, economically that's a good deal. Residential housing in this area also in Stevens City there's one bridge across I-81. That bridge is full of traffic multiple times during the day. If you have emergency personnel that have to cross that bridge, from my perspective, new buildings occur in Stevens City, the state or the county we need to build a bridge to there to deal with it because of emergency purposes. So that's the economics behind part of my thinking. When the Aylor was initially sold, we as a board, and some people were not on this board, some of us were, said that if you buy the new Aylor or we put the money in for new Aylor, which is another three million dollars, that the county would go and sell this property. So the comments that were made that this would stay in the public domain when we were talking about this five years ago was no, we were going to sell this property to help recoup some of the costs for the additional three million dollars we put into Aylor for an expansion of that school at that time. Going through the thought process, there was a gentleman here, who made the comment of Frederick, Frederick Middle School. And that school was assessed at eight million dollars, I'm rounding off his numbers, offered at 4.5 and sold for three. But that property was next to the hospital. The hospital wanted that land and so they had an economic incentive to say fine, we want this land because it was going to give something to the hospital. We had 11 people walk through this bid process, of which there were six organizations that were represented. Then the question becomes, if you don't have houses there what else do you have? So we went through and I went through with staff. If somebody is very wealthy and they wanted to put a McMansion there, would they want to do that on those 20 acres? And because of the location, the answer to coming back to that was no. Next process was, if you go through and say, can we put a strip mall, can we put a business office, etc., do those things fit? There's not enough traffic on Aylor Road, but you're exactly right, it's a lot of traffic. It's a lot of traffic, but it's not enough traffic, and we're going to have a law enforcement, and we're going to have a law enforcement, and we're going to have a law enforcement, and we're going to have a law enforcement in this area. It's not enough traffic on that site, but it's There's not enough traffic on Aylor Road to support that from the feedback that I got talking to staff. So then you're back to the situation of what do you do? You have one bid that was made for $300,000 and nobody else made a bid. They could have, but they didn't. And five years ago, this board of different members had said we were gonna go sell the property. So the $300,000 bid is a low bid. However, Eukary has right now a student population of 250, 300 students with a waiting list. Aylor right now has a capacity for 750 students based on the 2017 data. And before that it was 850. So you have basically 800 students capacity in that school. If you said to me, Blaine, I can go and build you a school for $300,000 and have 800 students and no longer need to go into the public school system, that's a very attractive item to me. So going through this thought process, that's why I'm coming to accept the bid as is. I highly respect those that disagree with this decision, but I'm giving you the courtesy of going out to a thought process and saying, this is why I've arrived where I've arrived. And so therefore I think the bid is a good bid for what we have. No one else has offered higher than that. I know the Stephen City has and that's come late, but, but you've heard my reasons on why I support this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. If I may, I'm going to have the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First and foremost, I want to thank everyone for coming and speaking. This is what a vibrant community does and I appreciate the input from all. I'd also like to thank the Hewitts for taking a stand. I know the bullets and the errors that you've taken. and I thank you for your standing strong in what you believe in. Many of you know that five and six years ago, I stood before this board as a citizen just as you did, and I voiced my reasoning for why that school should be rehabbed. If you go back and pull the tapes, and many of you know that I like to go back and pull the tapes, and I've done so recently, the tapes show many from the school system, including a couple folks who spoke this evening, that said the school was unsafe, the school was unusable. These are direct quotes. The school could not be rehabbed. Those were direct comments from teachers and staff of that school. If you also go back five years from that very dais and listen to the comments that I made, I said for $10 million, you could rehab that school and make it a very good school for an additional 35 years. $10 million five years ago is equivalent to about $15 million today. Do I believe that it can be rehabbed for $10 million and become a good school? 100%. I do. I'd like to go back to two other items. We do have the first right of refusal as the contract is written. It would be a major cost to every taxpayer in this county should we sell the school and 220 townhomes be put on the property. We would, in the first year, lose money on the school. If we want to talk about fiduciary responsibility, the proper fiducial duties would be to sell the school to this school system and allow this school system, eukaryotic, to be a good school for the entire community. We would also have to take some of the burden off of our, as we've heard tonight, overextended public schools presently. It would be a cheap exchange. Last but not least, I'd like to speak to what has been called a conflict of interest. There have been people on this board who have voted for their own salary increases. That, my friends, is a conflict of interest. For someone to vote on something that there is no financial gain for them is not a conflict of interest. I just wanted to set the record straight. I've gotten thoroughly frustrated to see the posts, to hear the comments within some, within the community, to say that it's a conflict of interest for somebody to look at the math and to do the right thing. I cannot think of a better use for this school, and I wish you guys well, as I pray that this vote tonight will be successful. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I would like to input. I recognize. I also have looked at the math on this and realized that, you know, as we put this out for bid and said no residential, we devalued the property. But when we also go to push numbers and look at the math, if we put homes, and I am constantly referring to Mr. Blaine Dunn, but $27,000 of a burden to the taxpayers. So when you want to sit up here and say that we're not working, we're not doing this, we're not doing this. We're not watching your taxpayer dollar. We absolutely are. And that's why I absolutely support this sale. My integrity has been questioned. And I have nothing financial to gain from this. And unfortunately, if you knew anything about my family, we've not had a Christmas dinner with my brother for the last 10 or so years. While that's very unfortunate, that kind of shows you. I just want to put it out there where my family stands. So I will be submitting my vote tonight. Thank you. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman. Further discussion, anyone? Yes. Ms. Slaughter. I just wanted to share one thing in a conversation with our county administrator and I had spoken, again, to Mr. Bolhoffer today to make sure we had covered our bases. And that was a planning exercise to determine the uses of the property for public uses within our community. So if it would be acceptable, Mr. Chairman, could Mr. Bolhoffer share what he has done on behalf with this exercise? Does it speak to the motion? I believe it speaks to addressing some of the citizen concerns. And the public use. It needs to speak to the motion. All right. Then I'll withdraw my request. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. So it seems we have two hurdles here tonight with regard to fiduciary responsibility. And I think other supervisors have addressed the numbers as well or better than I could. There's, the land was not assessed at $23 million. We've got a lot of other numbers that we need to address. And I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. Thank you. Thank you. I think there's a lot of other numbers out there that aren't exactly right. But to the best that the county can estimate it, there's quite an expense of putting in homes there. And while we could always have hoped that we had gotten a higher bid, this is not out of the ballpark of what we could sell it for minus the cost to remove the old Aylor building. And then on top of that, all the cost to the county to provide infrastructure. For homes that would go there. So again, I think with regard to that one, it's been at least very tightly debated tonight and well discussed. The other one was a conflict of interest comment. We've heard from the buyer that they would donate, you know, their purpose is transactional, to get a hold of the property and donate it to the school. I don't know the details of that. I've had a discussion back and forth with the county attorney. Much like with CUPs, we can put conditions on the sale if the buyer agrees. One that we do have is right of first refusal. So that if some undue profit was going to occur, if it was going to be resold, we could take it back at the purchase price and not lose money as a county. So we're protected there. But if the chairman permits, I would like to ask the buyer to take it back. I would like to ask the buyer about their intent and use of the term donate. This is discussion of a motion on the floor. Your comments would need to address the motion. So with, let me think if I can put them in terms of the motion. As I missed the closed session a month ago, so I wasn't able to ask the question there. I understand that's on me. My understanding is that the motion is not in the motion. My understanding, as it's been presented to me, is that the buyer is merely making a transactional purpose to facilitate the school's purchase of this property at that price and is making no profit. In fact, is taking risk to do so. My only comment that I was trying to get to was that we should take whatever measures we could as a county to assure that there in fact is no conflict and we can guarantee that there's no conflict. That there's no improper profit. If you do not feel that it's appropriate for me in the midst of this motion to bring that up, then I'll withdraw my comment. But I do want to assure the county that every indication we've had to now is that there is no risk in that respect and I would be absolutely in favor of making sure that that could not happen. Thank you. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to respond to Supervisor Ludwig's comment there and I'd like to leave this as an open question. If you would desire, sir, to do an amendment to the motion to write something into the deed, maybe the attorney could help us clarify that. That would simply state that the property must be conveyed to Eucharia within a set timeframe. And I don't know how we could word that, but have it worded that it must be conveyed to Eucharia Christian School within a set timeframe. Or it could revert back to the county at the sales price. I would second such a motion if you would so desire such and maybe the county attorney can weigh in and see if that is a legal avenue, something that we could do. And I would ask the county attorney to respond. I think we could facilitate that if that's the board's desire. Thank you. So in light of that, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make an amendment to the motion that we write into the agreement that the school be... Donated or forwarded to Eucharia Christian Academy or whatever the full legal name is within 18 months of the sale. And if that does not occur, that the property reverts back to Frederick County at the sales price. Make that as a motion. I would second that. The motion is our second. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Jern? Yes, sir. So this is what I don't know. I don't know the terms of the conveyance. I don't know the terms of the agreement. I don't know the terms of the agreement. I don't know the terms of the agreement. I don't know the terms of the agreement. I don't know the terms of the agreement. I don't know the terms of the agreement. The first thing is that the agreement is subject to a tax obligation. I don't know if there's a tax obligation that prohibits then this conveyance to go from a private person to there. And so, I'm probably not going to support it unless I had an answer to that, simply because I don't know the legal situation on RC or whatever the investment company is, RCM Investments. And if they go and purchase it and then they convey it, is there something that this motion would then prohibit that conveyance to occur? That's my concern. Mr. Chairman, I don't want to risk this process getting delayed after tonight's meeting. But if the board's desire is in accordance with the amendment, I think that's a question that needs to be worked out in the final contract negotiations with the purchaser. And that's their advice to get. If those terms become problematic for them, staff can come back to the board for further discussion of the terms. And, again, I realize that could potentially delay the process, but I don't think by a lot. Hopefully, I think only by not more than to the next meeting. So I think we can get there. So, Mr. Williams, I just don't want to have this potentially prohibit what we may be doing. That's all. Mr. Chairman, thank you. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. So was the attorney's suggestion that we would vote on approving the sale, and if it was approved, we still had room to put conditions to work out the final details of the purchase? That way we could move forward, which is good for the county and good for the school if we vote yes, but we could also make sure that we have the guarantees that we wish. Further discussion of the amended motion? Anyone? Okay. This is the amendment to the motion. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Aye. Chair votes. Aye. Motion carries. We are now voting on the amended motion. Clear? Okay. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Can we... I'm sorry? Before you vote, can I have a minute of discussion? Can you what? Can I have some discussion time? We just did that. But you didn't give me an opportunity. I'm sorry. Regular cargo, sir? Okay. But I'm not having any. I'm leaving briefly. OK. We will see. Talk about saying got no złie. We're going to startronida. Yes. Yes. Well, um, sorry. You have the committee. Now we have a running limo. We really are running limo. I got the whole line covered. So I got to control those of it is close conduct. I'll do it if possible. So. Sure. As amended, correctly. Go ahead. From the very beginning of this process, I, as a Peckin District Supervisor, have not been in favor of residential being on that property. So I want you to know that. Really, in closed session, that's how this process of bidding came forward. When the real discussion was taking place, it was up for sale. And probably for residential. I don't think that's where my district needs to be, and I was totally against that. That being said, from the very beginning of the board discussions, even with the new construction of Aylor School, I've been advocating for us to keep the Aylor School and to repurpose it. And that will be as soon as the concrete in Heyl zust took over its newly historic west end. Did that bring me to the California Department of Transport? It did. Right after the… That that also is possible.ollow. I get. are overcrowded and our Parks and Recreation is on the third floor of this building second floor of this building and I feel strongly that Frederick County should keep this very valuable piece of property for the future needs of the county our school administrators that I talked to last week are predicting the need for three new elementary schools in the very near future to sell this 22.9 acres of strategically located land which is assessed for 23 million and real estate appraised at 29 2.9 to 3.5 million for three hundred thousand dollars of taxpayer money is just a total waste the supervisors voting yes to this low price sale you are always on me about giving away taxpayer money and miss spending money and doing this and doing that and I take it and I go on with my stuff but however the very same group of people are taking taxpayer money 2.9 million in selling a piece of property and it's property I love the school I love you guys and all the good things you said it's heartwarming but this is a business proposition for Frederick County so I'm adjusting that number I said it a container presentation additional $3 million that was going to the Aylor School, that it would be at least some of it collected from the sale of that building once the new Aylor was built. This is a carry forward of that promise. The promise was that the school would be sold. Now, Mr. Wells is 100% accurate in stating that he did not want to have residential property on that piece of land, and I concurred with him. We do not want to have 220 townhomes built on there and incur over $5 million in costs every year to service those houses, those townhouses that will be built. So if we want to look at this two ways, we should. The first is the fiduciary way, and it is a major cost to this county. In 10 years, you more than recoup the cost of the land from selling this property. The difference between $3 million and the $300,000. And the $3 million is predicated on the fact that it be sold as residential property, not as a school, not as a church, not as business property, but as residential property. That's what that $2.9 to $3 million bid is propositioned on. The second avenue of that is trust in your government. When this government made you a promise five years ago that they were going to sell that building, we need to follow through with the promise that we made to the citizens, and that's what we intend to do this evening. I pray that we will follow through with our promise. There's been so many times that I've seen the words unsafe, unusable, can't be rehabbed, yet this evening we hear from a fellow supervisor that it can be rehabbed into offices, into other things for the schools. Either it can or it can't. And I just want to remind you fine folks, this gentleman voted for the new Aylor School. With those comments, it is unsafe, it is unusable, and it can't be rehabbed. Yet I just heard tonight we want to rehab it for school offices. Something doesn't make sense to me. Integrity matters, folks. Thank you. Thank you very much. Further discussion, anyone? What's up? Going to be here till midnight. Is that you asking to discuss? Yes, I am. I just want to refer back to Mr. Graber. I was totally in favor of building the new Aylor School. I did not say that the Aylor School could not be refurbished, that it could not be redone, that you could not do additions to it. I just didn't think that was the way to go because if you look at the school structure physically, the inside of the school cannot be renovated to fit the needs of the new school concepts that are taking place. So I don't know. So I don't have a problem with that. I don't have a problem with repurposing the school because I always thought that it could be done, but I didn't think that was the way to go. So Mr Graber, I'm not. You're saying putting words out and saying what I said and I didn't say those things I've heard you say those things. I didn't say that and I'm saying I didn't say that. I was 100% in favor of the new school. I'm not saying that I'm going to do it again. So stick with my guns. I think this Frederick County property, I think this property stays in Frederick County and is used for Frederick County purposes. That's it. Thank you very much. Further discussion, anyone? Mr Chairman. Hearing none. Gotta be quick. Very quick. I went back and forth with the county attorney. I recognize your opportunity. Thank you, sir. I went back and forth with the county attorney. We can put conditions on the sale that so that no one doing the transactional sale can make profit, although we won't want to use the profit because that particular word is hard to define. But we have ways to protect ourselves and county and all the people involved in the process so that none of this process could be abused. And I'll be happy, I'm sure we'll go over those discussions as we move to the next phase if this measure passes. Thank you. Call for a question, Mr Chairman. Thank you, sir. This is the amended motion to grant the sale with Covenant. I used it. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye, motion carries. We are finished with this subject. We are not finished with our agenda. So you all have been very good. And decorum this evening, we would like to continue with our agenda. Have a good evening. Planning Commission business, Conditional Use Permit 0323. Is this you, Mr. Chairman? No. Mike? There you go. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Board. This is a Conditional Use Permit for a dog kennel and dog breeding. The property is located at 159 Larrick Lane in the Opaquen District, and it has 6.32 acres, and it's zoned R.A. Thank you. This is a state ska gent<|bn|> Turning your attention to your left, the property as outlined in blue, the property is located north of alliance road and east of 81. Sorry. Additionally reorienting the property. The reliance is now to the Southwest or to the top right of your screen, and 81 is to the northwest or it's to the bottom of your screen the areas highlighted in yellow are going to be the areas for the dogs on the exterior and the garage is directly under the yard the red yard the garage is where the kennel is so dissolve the congressional law the construction authority SEC finries to select the appropriate areas for retention of pets but the county zone ordinance rules amending the Cell regenerationauthorship.� Frederick County Zoning Ordinance defines a kennel as a place to house board breed handler or otherwise keeper care for dogs for sale or in return for compensation the kennels are permitted in the RA with an approved conditional and the nearest dwelling is approximately 350 feet to the north and to the south of the property. A Category C separation buffer and screening is required by the ordinance. The property kennel used as described in the application narrative will be conducted indoors and therefore meet the intent of the zoning ordinance. According to the applicant, the proposed kennel operation will be conducted inside the existing detached kennel and which is fully enclosed, insulated, and provided with conditioned air. The applicant proposes to board and breed 31 Russell Terriers, not including the litters. Applicant proposes 20 to 30 litters annually consisting of 3 to 5 pups per litter for an expected total of 60 to 150 pups per year. Customers are by appointment only. Visitors to the kennel average 1 to 2 per week. Should the Board of Supervisors find this to be appropriate, the Planning Commission recommended the following conditions of approval. All review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. A maximum of two employees not residing on the premise is permitted. The dogs shall be confined to the kennel indoor between the hours of 9 p.m. and 7 a.m. The hours of operation for the public to access the property shall be between the hours of 9 p.m. and 7 a.m. The hours of operation for the public to access the property shall be between the hours of 9 a.m. and 7 a.m. New structures would require building permits. One monument-style sign with a maximum sign area of 50 square feet and 10 feet in height is permitted. An illustrative sketch plan in accordance with the requirements of Article 8 of the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance is required. It has to be submitted and approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of this use. Any expansion or modification of this use will require a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission held a public hearing July 5th and recommended approval, and staff is seeking the decision of the Board on the requested conditional use permit. Staff is available to answer any questions, and this London, the applicant is also available. Any questions of staff? Anyone? Anyone? Hearing. None. Thank you, ma'am. The applicant, have anything they'd like to add? Welcome. Hello. I'm Candace Lundeen. I'm a veterinarian. I've bred these dogs for about 20 years, previously in Loudoun County. We're considered a preservation breeder. This isn't like a puppy mill. A preservation breeder is trying to protect pure breeders. We're trying to protect the dog breed dogs so they don't end up with all doodles and pit bull crosses. We show around the U.S. and we even show in Europe. I'm getting ready now and two weeks ago to the World Dog Show in Geneva, Switzerland to show off these dogs. We try to improve every generation to meet the AKC breed standard, and all of them are genetically tested from numerous health diseases. Every pup that I sell or any dog that leaves my property has a microchip, and it's microchipped back to me and has been for the past 20 years. I can say that no dog I've ever bred or sold or produced has ended up in a shelter without me knowing about it because they check if one is found lost. We had one in Washington, D.C. a few years ago. They couldn't reach the owner. They contacted me. My husband. My husband drove into D.C. and picked it up, and then I waited until I could get a hold of the owner. So if there are more breeders like myself that could supply enough pups to all the families who want a nice puppy, we wouldn't have the shelter problem that we have now. So that's one argument I wanted to make to defuse any of those concerns. I'm in the rural area. I'm surrounded by horses, cattle, goats, sheep, ducks, chickens. Driving by, I don't know if we had any slides that showed it, but driving by you wouldn't know that this was a dog kennel. My fencing looks exactly like the horse fencing property next to us. It's three-board fencing. It does have two-by-four no-climb horse fencing to keep the dogs in, obviously, and that's into the ground so they can't dig out. We don't get escapees. But the point is when you drive by or if you stand out front, you can see the dog. You see a couple. My dogs are about 12 inches tall. You might see them peeking out around the side yard. The bushes in front hide some of them. I guess that's all. Questions of Mrs. London? Yes, sir? Speak. I'm a dog kennel owner. I'm a dog kennel owner. I'm a dog kennel owner. So, first of all, can you just define for me and everybody else, you said, I think you said AKC, is that correct? Yes. So what does AKC stand for? American Kennel Club. All right. And I believe that in your comments before the Planning Commission, you said that you were trying to hold their stand, you were holding up their standards. The state has no standards. You were saying there's a set of standards that you want to go and conform to. American Kennel Club for every purebred dog that they accept. Yes. And they're not going to be the standard. Yes. And they're not going to be the standard. Yes. And they're not going to be the standard. Yes. So what is the standard? The standard is the standard that the dog is kept as recognized, has a detailed description of breed type. Essentially, breed type is what, when you look at a dog, you can tell one's a Schnauzer and you can tell one's a Scotty. The description's very detailed into describing those differences. And in the background material, I read the items that define that. Would you have any objections on just having that as the standard as part of the CUP? As the what? Would you have any objections on just having that as the standard as part of the CUP? Would you have any objections on just having that as the standard as part of the CUP? Do you have any objections on just having the American Kennel Club's standards, which you referenced at the Planning Commission, as part of the conditions for the CUP? Do you have any objections on just having the American Kennel Club's standards, which you referenced at the Planning Commission, as part of the conditions for the CUP? Do you have any objections on just having the American Kennel Club's standards, which you referenced at the Planning Commission, as part of the conditions for the CUP? No problem, because by registering pups with the AKC I get inspected every couple of years by an American Kennel Club representative. No problem, because by registering pups with the AKC I get inspected every couple of years by an American Kennel Club representative. No problem, because by registering pups with the AKC I get inspected every couple of years by an American Kennel Club representative. couple of years by an American Kennel Club representative. They go over not only our records, but the housing situations. Another concern that I have has been that, again, I understand that you are the operator. I understand that the owner of the land, that you do not own the land, but somebody else owns the land. Is that accurate? It's my brother. Okay, that's fine. Okay. So I'm just going to tell you from a supervisor's viewpoint, after listening to what you said, and as a commission, and doing my background, I think you're doing a good thing, and I'm inclined to support it. My concern is that in 18 months or 18 years, or whatever, sometime in the future, you leave. And if this board votes for the CUP, then John Doe, when he comes through, and he doesn't have your standards, says, fine, I can now go and run a puppy mill here, and I don't care whether there's manure or not, water or not, et cetera. So I had a conversation with staff earlier, and I'm inclined. When you sit down. Yeah. To make a conditional use that this be renewed every two years. Not as an initial cost to you, but what I'm trying to prevent is that when you leave at some point in time, the next person doesn't come through and abuse the standards you have. I have no idea what my other board members are going to say. I don't want you to be surprised when I say that. I understand. So that's kind of my thinking. I think you're, based upon what I've seen, it's a good job. Thank you. I'm concerned about people that come after you. I'm concerned about people that come after you, not having the same standards you are. So that's why I'll probably offer an amendment to the CUP, and we'll see what happens. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for you, ma'am, just so I was clear on things. Did I understand you're going to have approximately 30 dogs that you will be breeding annually? Is that correct? Yes. That's an average, yes. And the average litter? They're not, 30 aren't bred. I have about half males, half females. So about 15 of each? Uh-huh. Okay. Okay. And you're expecting each one of those to have a litter at least once a year, twice a year? Once a year. Once a year. It varies. I understand. But like I said, in Lowndes County, I've done this for, I guess, 17 years there, and we had no trouble. I have a waiting list with 40 people. I can't supply everyone a puppy that we want. We're very particular about what families get, that they know what a terrier is, they understand how to train them. We work with them. Yeah. I've done a little looking into your past there with your past breeding, and it appears to, that you try to be above board with things. My question is, is have you looked at other areas that are already acceptable to your business so that we wouldn't have to get a CEP? Have you looked at any other properties that may be more conducive to a business versus this? No, I have not. No, I have not. It's really, it fit perfectly with the ranch house and had large, two large master suites because I whelped all my mothers. I've had a couple of mothers in the bedrooms with me, and this had the right land. Originally, it has a large horse barn, and we originally thought we might turn that into the kennel, but in looking at it, it was just going to be too expensive because we want it fully insulated, air conditioned, heated. I have heating in the floors also with mats. They have overhead ceiling fans. Yeah. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir? I have a few questions for Mrs. London. Is that right? Dr. Lundeen. Dr. Lundeen. Lundeen. I knew I was going to be way off. According to the material we were given, there'll be 16 females, and they would have one or two litters a year. Yes. The estimate was 20 to 30 litters of three to five pups each. I mean, you can't predict that. Sometimes it's a singleton, and I've had as many as nine. That's real rare. And then there's survival of the puppies as well. But by that math, just taking it for what it is, that's 60 to 150 pups per year, given those numbers. How long do they reside with you before they depart the property? Okay, so because our primary goal is to produce the show quality, we can't really know that until their permanent teeth come in, so that's at five months. But what I do is... At six weeks, I can usually weed out one or two. I can tell that they don't have the correct shape, face, or they're already starting with an underbite with their deciduous teeth. I know they're not going to be show quality. So they will leave between... Earliest is nine weeks. I like 10 to 12 weeks of age for these guys. But if they were slowly developing litter or had any issues, I keep them a little longer. But there'll be like one per... Per litter, I might hold on till four to five months of age to determine it is show potential before I let it go to a show home. Because some of these will go to Europe, say, and that would be too expensive to have one go to Europe and it not be show quality, and I have to take it back. Yeah, my calculation is just meant to try and determine how many dogs are on the property at any one time on average. So if they lasted half a year... Yeah. Yeah. By math, that would be... Well, that would only be like maybe 10 would last. 10 per year might stay that long. Okay. You see, because it's only the ones that make it past the 12-week evaluation stage. I evaluate them at like six weeks, eight weeks, 10 weeks, 12 weeks. By the time I get to 12 weeks, there's maybe only one, if that, that I think has good top quality. I'm pretty particular. We were the first AKC, the breeders who produced the first champions in AKC for this breed. You may have read I've won a world dog show, two junior world winner shows. So we're kind of at the top. People around the world in this breed do know our kennel. So I'm not going to let just anything be called a show quality dog from DBF. So my concern was more... Just to calculate how many dogs there would be on the property at any one time. And so my estimate of 61 or more is off because many of the puppies would be gone quickly. Yeah. There'd be never more than 50 max. And that is what... I'm not sure what this... I think that is Virginia agriculture law. It's under 50. I don't... Or maybe that's USDA. If I stand under 50, I don't need to have USDA licensing. And I don't do that because USDA would require... Me to raise puppies in a separate building. You see, I want my puppies with me. I hear them like you might a newborn baby when something's going wrong. And I can immediately care for them and treat them. So that's 50 total dogs, including the adults, or 50 puppies? Yes, that would be total. So you're going to keep the number under 50. Yes, yes. Which is still quite a number. And 30... Since, you know, four equals one lab, you know. And 31 of those would be adults. Would be the... The females and the 15 in the hall. Yeah, but, you know, they weigh 12 pounds each. Okay, so... And the puppies aren't as loud as adult dogs, I imagine. No. They're indoors a lot. So we're talking... They're usually only loud when new people come in. And most of the dog yards are behind the house. The noise from I-81 is almost like white noise and filters out a lot of it. That's one of the reasons we also picked the site. So 31 adult dogs and 20 or so puppies to keep it under 50 at any one time. And then you're supposed to have, I guess, maybe I should have asked staff, a Category C buffer, which I haven't researched. Do you know what that is that you have to provide between you and the other homes? Yes, and we've been discussing it with staff. And that buffer is noise-preventative? It's trees, or is it just fencing? Well, we do have 16 of the dogs live in the kennel, and it is fully insulated like a home. And since they are going to be inside, they have right now the freedom to go in, and out to a dog run. But then we will close those guillotine doors at 9 p.m., open them up at 7 a.m. For most of the day, they could be outdoors. Yes, uh-huh. Have you spoken to the, have the neighbors weighed in on this process? I didn't hear from staff on that. I learned that one neighbor had complained early on, and it turned out it was because this was before we were closing the guillotine doors at night. And we didn't realize that they were going outside, and that was a problem. And she was barking at the moon. So we have then addressed that and checked back with the neighbor, and she has been fine with it. She had no further complaints. I even helped her duck with a veterinary issue recently. So I apologize, Mr. Chairman, for not being aware, even now, on what comments we got from the community immediately adjacent to her property. But I did have two more questions. So the application is, the application says the kennel waste is picked up daily, bagged, and disposed. Is it taken off-site daily or stored somewhere on-site? No, it's stored on-site in bins, and then we make a trip maybe twice a week to the landfill. Okay. And it also says that the outdoor waste and the runs is cleaned weekly. So that sits there for a week, and then the commercial company removes that the day they clean it? Well, those aren't runs. We're talking about yards, like one-acre and two-acre yards. Okay. And that waste is removed by the commercial company once a week on that day they take it away? It will be. It has not started yet. Okay. But it's pretty minimal compared to the cattle next door. All right. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further questions from anyone? Thank you. Mr. Chairman, we had one person sign up to speak. Darlene Mowry. Mowry? Welcome. My name is Darlene Mowry, and I live in Loudoun County in Percival. I spend a lot of time in Frederick County, and the subject is very important to me. So I mailed you a letter, and I'd like to... I'll read what I mailed you. I'm asking you to please deny the cup approval today for Candace London, owner of DBD Jack Russell Terrier. Previously, they advertised their business under DBF Russell Terriers in Roundhill, Virginia, stating they were a small home-based breeder. Then they were in Middleburg, and they called their breeding facility Dog, which is a small home-based breeder. They are now in the branch farm, dash DBF Russell Terriers, and stating their dogs were raised in their home. Now they are back to their original name, DBF Russell Terriers, located in Middleton, Virginia, and wanting to expand their business to a large-scale operation. They are going from a small home-based breeder to a commercial breeding facility, which is essentially a puppy mill. As stated in the Winchester, Star, the article, Dog Breeding Kennel near Middleton gets panel support to resolve violation. All dogs are housed in crates inside the home or within the fully insulated and air-conditioned kennel located in an existing garage, according to county documents. Dogs are secured in six outdoor play yards when appropriate weather permits. What is described here, is a commercial breeding facility, aka puppy mill, inside a garage, not in, not a kennel. And these dogs and puppies are living in crates, which I would essentially call cages. Note, they do not say that the garage is heated, just insulated, so I don't know exactly what that means. It gets very hot and humid here in the summer, and very cold sometimes, and it's also very cold in the winter, so they're not getting enough exercise. They're not getting enough exercise, and they're not getting enough exercise, and they're not getting enough exercise, and they're not getting enough exercise, in their play yards. The bottom line is these poor dogs will be living their lives in cages, not in a family home, running around, constantly being loved and nurtured. In addition, the female dogs will produce until they can produce no more, and will no longer be in use, of use. As stated in the Winchester Star article, dog breeding kennel near Middleton gets panel support to resolve violation. The kennels cup application seeks to be able to board and breed up to 16 female Russell Terrier dogs, not including their litters, at any given time. Another 15 dogs reside within a home on the property. They propose they will have 20 to 30 litters annually, with litter sizes consistent, and a testing of three to five pups each, according to county documents. This is without question a puppy mill you are being asked to approve. It is cruel and inhumane for these dogs to live their lives in cages, to reproduce for profit. Thank you. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that was the only person who signed up. All right. Thank you. All right. How would the Board like to move forward? Peckins District, sir. I'm sorry? It's your Peckins District. You in there. OK. He's just looking at me, boss. Thank you. I hadn't looked in your direction. Pardon? I had not yet looked in your direction. All right. Mr. Chairman, I move for denial of the application as presented to the State Board. evening. Mr. Chairman, I'll second that motion. Okay. So we have a motion on the floor. Discussion? I'll have a little discussion if I may. Having lived beside a breeding facility for several years, I know the headaches that it causes in a residential area. I've had the personal experience or displeasure of meeting multiple folks from out of the area that get irate with you or cuss or holler at you when they can't find where they're supposed to be going. When there's issues with the dogs or other items, there's a lot of barking. It was just quoted tonight. It's loud when people come in. I've personally experienced that. It's been very challenging in my life. And I believe that this could be a very good venture. I believe that the applicant has a good idea as far as what she's trying to do with dogs and keep a breed pure. But I think that there are other avenues within the county to do that and a commercial area would be more best suited for this, not a residential area. So I appreciate the motions made. Further discussion? Anyone? Yes, sir. So this area is a rural area. So by definition, you know, the concerns on barking dogs, which I've addressed elsewhere, I would say is as germane. I would go and move to support this. I know you have a motion on the floor to deny. If that fails, then I'd like to come back because I don't think, if that fails, I'd like to come back with a motion that would simply say that the applicant has to have the same keep the same standards. The application will expire in two years. The reason I'm saying it should expire in two years is because staff has said to me it would be very hard to go and enforce the AKC standard. It's a hard item to define. But if you simply said it expires in two years, then the issue would come up again every two years. As I said to the applicant earlier, if the applicant leaves and somebody else comes in and doesn't have that standard, then I would probably be willing to deny. Based upon what the applicant said at the Planning Commission, based upon what I read, I think she has addressed some of the concerns that you have. We'll agree to disagree on that. And that's where I am. So if the Board does not, if the Board votes to not deny, which then keeps the application on the Board, then I'm going to come back with a conditionally used permit. I'm going to come back with a conditionally used permit that would say it shall expire in two years, subject to the AKC standard that she has, and let the applicant come forward. I'm not looking to have an additional cost to the applicant each year, but I'm just concerned about the applicant leaving and somebody else coming in. Because the COP is on the property, I don't want somebody else coming in with a lower standard. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? Call for the question? Not quite. Not quite. Mr. Williams, can you restrict? And require? A renewal of a CUP? Thank you, sir. Question? Can I just add to discussion? Based on what Mr. Blaine Dunn just said, I'm all for property rights. And I feel that while we may not like what business she's doing, that's not for me to say what business she's doing. It seems to me that the dogs would be in the best care, being in that they're in a veterinarian's home. And if they are bringing the dogs in by 9 p.m., that seems respectful to me. And I like what you said, that we keep a standard every two years, that somebody couldn't come to that property and use that conditional use permit. So, yes. Further discussion, anyone? Are we ready? Motion is to deny. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Sir? That's four ayes. Chair votes no. Four three. McKinnell? Still alive. No service. The motion was defeated. To deny. It was denied. It was denied. Yes. Yes, that's correct. Are you done? We're done. If it seems to me it's been denied. It has. Then there's nothing more that I can do. No need. All right, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Board, this is information discussion item for an ordinance amendment to convert our allowed uses terminology and it also includes additions and deletions to our allowed uses tables in several districts. There are two proposals for your consideration this evening. Staff would note that we have put more than six months into this effort. I'd like to thank Amy Feltoner and Mark Charron in our office who have done the extensive work on this project. Licensing, we'll pass to the approvals to approve and approve. Any Schluss? Aye. project, and these proposals may be acted on in tandem or they may be acted upon separately depending on your opinions this evening. So the first proposal, Proposal A, is a conversion of the allowed uses terminology, and Proposal B for your consideration is again that additions and deletions to the allowed uses list and staff will walk through each of those items. So for the conversion of the allowed uses terminology, our current ordinance, for those of you who are familiar with it, utilizes what's known as the standard industrial classification nomenclature and terminology for our use list. This system was last updated in 1987. It kind of tells you where our uses are today, more than almost 40 years since that was last updated. Updates to the allowed uses tables are proposed in our plan development districts, our business districts, our industrial districts, and we propose changing the terminology to terminology utilized in the North American Industrial Classification System, or NAICS. We would also remove that SIC numeric coding and all the numeric coding from the ordinance, and we would also propose updates to remove SIC references throughout other sections of the ordinance. So this is a fairly complex ordinance. It's a very broad change, not only to those districts but to the ordinance as a whole. NAICS is an alternative system for classifying business industries. It's maintained by the Office of Management and Budget, and it's updated on an annual basis, so it's constantly, they're constantly refreshing the list and updating and adding new classifications as industries and businesses evolve. We have made it clear in our revisions that NAICS may serve as a resource to the zoning administrator in making interpretations regarding definitions and use types, but it's only one of many tools that they have at their disposal. And again, we're not proposing any of the numeric codes, which adds to confusion and also locks in specific terminology. So walking you through a few examples, what does this look like when you look at the ordinance? It's a very complex ordinance. It's a very complex ordinance. It's a very complex ordinance. It's a very complex ordinance. It's a very complex ordinance. It's a very complex ordinance. It's a very complex ordinance. It's a very complex ordinance. I think this is one of the more pertinent ones to look at when you look at SIC. Again, 1987 was the last time it was updated. It says communication facilities, including telegraph, not an industry anymore. The updated, the more modern terminology under NAICS is wired and wireless telecommunications. Again, not something that was prevalent in 1987, but it's very common today in a major industry type. This was pulled from our B2, general business B3 industrial transition, and M1, light industrial district. Okay. So, another example with the conversion of the uses is condensing a lot of the uses in our ordinance. We have a lot of uses. It is a very broad list. When you look at other communities' zoning ordinances, they're a lot more condensed in their uses. Under SIC, we have a number of retail establishments. You have general merchandising stores, apparel and accessory stores, home furniture and furnishing stores, miscellaneous retail, and a laundry list of other uses. Under NAICS, it's condensed into one use type. So, retail trade, and within retail trade, all of these retail uses are allowed. This is an example from our B2 district. A third example is it pertains to our manufacturing uses in our M1 district. We have our manufacturing as follows, and we have 30-something uses specified there. Again, this cleanup activity and the terminology condenses that into single use, food, beverage, and tobacco manufacturing, excluding seafood, animal slaughtering, and processing. Those uses are allowed in our M2 districts. So, that's your first proposal for consideration. Again, simple update to the terminology, reflecting modern industries and modern uses. The second proposal for your consideration is, again, a more broad additions and deletions to the allowed uses list. We were very kind to not try to remove too many uses, and we did ensure that anything where the terminology was converted, we didn't lose any uses. So, what you're mainly seeing is a proposal to add several uses throughout our districts, all of which are not allowed uses tables. In most cases, or rather in some cases, the addition expands that allowed uses. It better articulates the intent of the zoning district so that people looking to locate businesses there know what they can and cannot do. Again, it may reflect uses that weren't even in existence the last time SIC was updated. So in our B1, our neighborhood business district, there was only one change. This was a recommendation of the Development Review and Regulations Committee, and they recommended the removal of a lot of the existing uses. So, we're going to take a look at this and see if we can do anything about it. Thank you. We're going to continue to look at it. We're going to continue to look at the C Norms Act, and we'll talk about the changes as well. Our B1 district, the intent of that district is your kind of neighborhood scaled uses that serve adjoining residences, and that the committee felt like that use may not be appropriate in this district. Again, it's only a recommendation from that committee this time. And then this is the only deletion that was proposed. In our B2, our general business district, we have added some additional uses, broadband and content providers, automotive oil change and lubrication shops, and tap water. and technical and trade schools. Our B3 district, our industrial transition zone, is a number of uses were added to this district. This is a district that's been underutilized by the development community. Primarily the one use that people rezone to B3 for is automotive repair, but we did, it's supposed to serve as a kind of a bridge district between our general business and our industrial district. So we've proposed including warehousing and storage uses, gasoline stations with or without convenience stores, professional scientific and technical services including testing laboratories, general business offices, precision equipment repair and maintenance, consumer good rentals, car, truck, utility trailer, and RV rental and leasing. Our technology manufacturing park district, not too many changes here. You all actually did a fairly comprehensive overhaul of this district several months ago, but the additional uses proposed would be storage batteries and primary battery manufacturing. In our M1 district, our light industrial zone, proposed uses include storage batteries and primary battery manufacturing and waste management remediation services, although we did limit that use to glass, cardboard, and plastic recycling and did exclude incinerators. Currently waste management is only allowed in our M2 district but the noxious part of that is the incineration. That's been removed from our M1 district and we limited it to the M2 district. So we're not going to be able to do that. So we're not going to be able to do that. So we're not going to be able to do that. So we're not going to be able to do that. We're going to limit it again to glass, cardboard, and plastic recycling. For our M2 district, there was only one change. Staff recommends changing tractor trailer and tractor truck parking from the conditional use list and making that an allowed use. Our M2 is our most intensive district. It is where heavy industries are located. Tractor truck and tractor trailer truck parking is a component of a lot of those manufacturing and other intense uses and citing it there and not requiring a conditional use permit seems appropriate given that it is our most intense district and tractor truck parking and coming and going is a fairly intensive use. For the medical support district, we did not make any changes to the allowed uses list. For those of you who are familiar with that district, it's a fairly long table with kind of accessory uses to the hospital and we reorganized and condensed that list to make it more user friendly. A lot of the uses that were currently there were duplicative in each section, so we just condensed it down into a single list. For our HE higher education district, the permitted use list was expanded to include accessory and secondary uses that are complimentary and associated in conjunction with an educational campus setting. For example, we've added restaurants or food service industries, retail uses and lodging, which again are complimentary to a higher education campus setting. And finally, for our extractive manufacturing district, we added parks to the permitted use list. The reason for adding parks is when a extractive manufacturing facility is no longer viable on a site, they remediate the site, and that could be used as a potential park space because it has been remediated. So again, a lot of work has gone into this project. Staff has worked on it for more than six months. The Development Review and Regulations Committee did see this multiple times. They saw each district twice, and they did a fair amount of work to go through all of the red line versions, the clean versions, and talk about the intents of those ordinances. So kudos to the district, and I think that's a great way to end this. Kudos to the members who are on that committee. They put in a lot of work. They met in February, March, and April of this year. They endorsed the proposed changes, and again, they made one recommendation, which was the deletion of the car washes from that B1 district. The Planning Commission discussed this item on July 5th, and they did express support for both of the proposals, and staff is seeking direction this evening from the board on whether these items are ready to go forward for public hearing. Again, there are two proposals for your consideration. You can send both of them forward for public hearing or one or the other. And I'm happy to answer any questions you have, and thank you for bearing with me. It's a very long presentation. Oh, you did good. Questions? Anyone? Yes, sir. Mr. Klein, I just want to reiterate. You basically said that nothing was deleted. Some things were changed from one designation, rather like from neighborhood to B1 or B2, et cetera. Nothing's been deleted, correct? Correct. Staff worked very diligently, again, the zoning administrator, Ms. Feltner, and myself, to make sure that no uses were lost in the translation. And we were very keen to make sure that we weren't limiting someone's use that they're already entitled to, but we were only expanding what uses were otherwise allowed. And the advantage of this change is so that those that are using these services can easily find them through a Google search or whatever, as opposed to having to go through a book, literally, to tab through. And so it would benefit the users on who's determining what they want to do. Is that correct? That is correct. And you'll hear a lot of the feedback that was received at the Planning Commission. By the committee. And actually, the Economic Development Authority looked at it was making the ordinance more user-friendly. There is a web-based tool for NAICS. And you can actually put in individual businesses or individual industries. And it quickly pulls up the information, as opposed to the SIC, which is a old textbook that we all have to tab through and find and try to make things fit. Thank you. Yes, sir. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman, if I may. Mr. Klein, when we look at the neighborhood business district, and there is reference to the U.S. Department personal and laundry services, would that include dry cleaners? Yeah, personal and laundry services includes coin-operated laundries and dry cleaners. It would not include like an industrial launderer where you would send product to be cleaned, but your neighborhood laundry or dry cleaner, your neighborhood coin-operated laundry, those would be included there. I have one other question. I believe that was on page 207, so let me get there. It was a reference to the MS district. So let me. Okay, it was item number one. It talks about all continuing care retirement communities must be within a two-mile radius from the center of Route 37 medical center interchange. And I guess the concern I have is that perhaps a CCRC might choose to locate an interchanger. Is that something that we potentially should remove from? We discussed it as a staff. We thought it was outside of the scope of what we were trying to do with converting the useless, but certainly this is the appropriate time if the board would so choose to remove that requirement or amend that requirement. When the medical support district was designed, it was intended to be ancillary or secondary to Winchester Medical Center. But we have had some recent developments. So I don't know if that's true. It may be in the development interest in maybe locating an MS district somewhere else in the community, potentially near Lake Frederick. So having that restriction on a continuing care facility being in proximity to that particular interchange on Route 37 could potentially be problematic. So if you all would like to remove that and give us direction to do so, we will make sure that that is taken care of and reflected in the item going forward. I think I would like to see the restriction removed. Or amended in a way that softens it some. Yes, sir. Of course. Again, we can work on it. that language and when we bring it back for public hearing make sure we call attention to what specifically changed for your own benefit so remember when the SIC was claimed to be the silver bullet and talked us into going that way I only have a little bit of a concern about some of the uses like tractor trailer parking in our M districts now we don't have a lot of M2 and if we're going to do one or the other M2 is probably the right place but M ground these days is precious stuff hate to see it eaten up with tractor trailer parking and truck parking would still be required to be a conditional use permit in our M1 district okay okay okay, yes sir, I can live with that thank you anyone else Mr. Chairman yes sir just a quick question so you've said that you were careful that no uses got eliminated I do see of course a lot of line out of items as you transfer between the terminology just as one test of that for my own satisfaction on page 148 so it's the B1 neighborhood business district we all know there's a lot of car washes for some reason far be it for me to question the free market coming to the county I see car washes lined out for the neighborhood business district so if that use is not going away that's captured by other language well that that was a recommended deletion in that particular district and we did look this week and there are no B1 zone property car washes in the county they're all on B2 property there was one that was my second there was one on a road it went out of business so that that would be the only one that was it was know getting there out of business but we are taking that use out of the B1 that is correct yes sir that is the only deletion that you see it across all the changes and as one clarification to that that is with the adoption of proposal b proposal a so proposal A is the one that has attempted to have no loss, a straight conversion with no deletions proposal B has one deletion in it which is a straight conversion with no deletions proposal B has one deletion in it which is a trata deletions a jaelor de presence close B a so proposal a is the one that has a straight conversion with no deletions proposed by the department so proposal a so proposal A only has one deletions so Automatically where does that exist 믿 puakinsi jeary is the one with TorfDonnie C� cornerバー with no deletions proposal B has one deletion in it which is car washes and be one okay so I stumbled upon that one by accident but thank you yes sir so you make the comment on tractor trailer parking in m2 I believe that mr. Klein said that's good if this goes through is by right that correct in m2 would be by right under this proposal but in the m1 district it would continue to be a conditional use requiring a conditional use permit prior to the parking being cited so mr. chairman me ask you so is that is that acceptable to you could you make a big difference between a morning I understand that I understand the difference you're comfortable with CEP for m1 and by right for m2 yes okay thank you for everyone's clarification tractor trailer truck parking has a fairly extensive supplemental use of regulation so even if we're not able to get it to the district we're not going to get it to the district we're going to get it to the district we're going to get it to the district we're going to get it to the district if they want to be sited and then to buy right they still have to comply with all the screening and buffering requirements and things of that nature anyone else you want us to try to if you input want us to try to pick an A or B we're looking for direction about sending for public hearing again you may take either one of them separately or send them together it's it's up to the consensus of the group. My question of my colleagues would be are you okay with the input we've given to see how that comes back in black and white in the print at a public hearing? So Mr. Chairman I am I'm open to having both A and B go forward. Let's just address Mrs. Slaughter's concerns on a hospital issue. Personally I am not at this point saying it should be eliminated. I just want to see the pros and cons of that so I don't have enough information to know one way or the other. I'm sensitive to her concerns so I think that those concerns ought to be addressed. Even if it comes back with here's what you do is a positive here's what you do is a negative. But I'm comfortable going forward with both at this point in time. Thank You Mr. Chairman I would be fine with both as well. I would strongly like to see Mrs. Slaughter's comments be incorporated into it. We do not want to be a slave to a rule that says we are not a slave to a rule. That's just how it is. be a slave to one medical system. Winchester's here now. There's nothing, or Valley Medical's here now. There's nothing to say that a secondary medical condition, a UVA, and I know the Fairfax, somebody could put a hospital in somewhere on 522, and I don't want to see us be a slave to two miles from that facility there on 37. I think by taking that out of the equation, it allows us to have a lot of additional possibilities for long-term care facilities, other type of care facilities next to medical facilities as we grow as a community. So I absolutely would like to see Ms. Slaughter's comments brought forth. Thanks. Anyone else? What I might suggest is that you bring it back to the board in the final format and let the board decide whether it's ready to go forward with the hearing. Now, I don't know whether you're on a schedule for a particular reason. I'm open to hearing about that. Mr. Chairman, if I may cut in, I think thankfully with the clear direction the board has provided and your normal process, if authorized, we could bring this back for public hearing before the Planning Commission and the board in the final form that you described. And if you have any issues with it at that time when it's presented for public hearing, you can send this back to the working board. We can pause. Okay. I'm good with that. Thank you. Mr. Williams. Affirming with me that we would need a motion to move these proposals to public hearing. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I make a motion that we move both scenario A and scenario B forward for public hearing with the changes as presented this evening. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Lud? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Okay. Board liaison reports, are there any? Mr. Chairman, I'd like to just say that we had a wonderful Frederick County Fair and well attended and a lot of our FFA students in the county attended and showed their animals and it was great to see the good turnout. It was a lot of fun. Great. Anyone else? Thank you. Citizen comments? Anyone sign up? Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. Darrell Bell? Welcome, sir. Like a bad penny, I'm back. Good evening again. Thank you, Supervisor DeHaven. First, I would like to take this moment to congratulate Eukarya Christian Academy for obtaining something that will most certainly be beneficial to their school. This was never about Eukarya or about Mr. Hewitt and anything that he may or may not have done. This is about space for our public schools as far as I'm concerned. And I'm disheartened by the fact that promises were made to sell a piece of property in such a short-sighted manner to accommodate gaining back who knows how much of the monies that were spent for the education. And I'm also disheartened by the fact that the school is now a place where the students can go and learn from the history of the school. The fact remains, whether it costs a hundred million or a billion, we're going to need a fourth high school. We're going to need at least two, perhaps three new elementary schools. Or we will need to do some major renovation on the existing schools that we have. So for me, I was never against Eukarya. I don't think I, and quite honestly, if I were, if I had the means that Mr. Hewitt had, I would have been in the position to do so. I would have been in the position to do so. And I think that the board of education has, and I had my children going to this school and I wanted to see bigger and better things for it, I would do the exact same thing. I'm a father, I have two children, I want what's best for them. So kudos to them for following the process that was laid out before them. I don't think they did anything wrong. But I think that the board of education and this board has lost sight of the public schools that we have. I would challenge you all, actually, and the school board, to go to a school that is not a public school. Go to Aylor and go to one of the trailers during the school day and sit in there and then go to the bathroom and see how long it takes you to get from that trailer to the restroom and come back. Reality is we're going to have to build new schools or we're going to have to do some serious renovation. When Jordan Springs was opened, they were at 98% capacity. Now they're over capacity. A number of our schools are over capacity. Redistricting will only do so much to alleviate this issue. So I implore you that if we find ourselves in a surplus of land, take the time to think about not what's going to happen the following year or the next five years, but think about 10 years down the line or 20 years down the line. We're a growing community. We have government agencies building here. We have new housing developments going up everywhere. The best way for you to build a community is to build a community. The best way for you to handle this in the future is through communication. Talk with the school board. Talk with the schools. Talk with citizens who have children in public schools. Communication is key. If we can't communicate with each other, if we can't find common ground, whether you're a Republican or a Democrat or somewhere in between or somewhere way over there or way over there, then there's a problem. We should be able to find common ground with each other on several different avenues. That's the goal. And I think that it's important for us to communicate. That's my message to you, and I hope that it's listened to and thought about. Thank you very much. Deborah Snyder. Welcome. My name is Deborah Snyder. I'm a resident of the Gainesboro District, and I live next to the Poorhouse Road site where the county plans to build a 250-foot tower. To preface this address, both my husband and I are prior service members. My husband has been a law enforcement officer for over 17 years and leads multiple offices throughout the capital area. I tell you this to make sure you know that we are intimately aware and in agreement of the importance of an up-to-date emergency communication system. What I am concerned with is the lack of care our county officials have shown in the process. The county has allowed outside entities to control the project decisions, but it is the responsibility of these officials to review everything to make sure their citizens are being protected in the process. The mindset that these towers are by-right public utilities, therefore not requiring public input, has led to multiple errors due to the lack of oversight. With the proposed Poorhouse Road tower alone, the following discrepancies have been found. Inaccurate coordinates in the original project, the public notice and the FCC filing. Environmental assessment expired before the public notice was published. Pictures submitted for FCC approval were of an open field, not the wooded area that was ultimately cleared. Soil testing was only completed for a 195-foot tower. The site plan shows a false 195-foot setback. Actual site plan measurements show only 160 feet to the tower center from my property line. County officials... The site plan shows only 165 feet to the tower center from my property line. County officials have stated there is no fall zone for the tower, but the site candidate document shows an actual fall zone of 225 feet. Proper zoning ordinances under codes 165-201 and 401 have been ignored, putting my family and my property at risk in the event of a fall. The proper setback should also be observed, since it is the intent of the county to lease these towers to third parties for telecommunication purposes. It is unethical to put these towers in, as public utilities, and then subject your citizens to high radio frequency levels from commercial wireless systems. I would like to remind you that only 50-foot towers are by right in Frederick County, and this board has voted against amendments to make just 100 and 150-foot telecommunication towers by right. The decision to build new towers goes against the 2035 comprehensive plan that was in place at the time the contract with EF Johnson was signed. On page 70, the goal is stated, to collocate a new system on existing towers. The contract was signed without making any amendments to the plan, no public notice, and without a public hearing. This goes against Virginia Code 15.2-2232. I urge the county to reassess the location of this tower, or at the very least abide by its own zoning ordinances. I would also appreciate thoughtful consideration of Supervisor Lockridge's motion to bar third-party leasing on this specific tower if the location stands. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. chairman, if it pleases the board, Mr. Lockridge has asked that I can distribute some information real quick. If you leave him with Ms. Phillips, she'll pass him down. Certainly. Just a little bit of background. background. I've spent the last 20 years working for the United States government deploying RF systems both Satcom and terrestrial communications overseas in support of the global war on terror and some of the other elements. While I haven't served directly in the military I have been a contractor in support of military services and I'm now working for Google public sector supporting networking and RF communications both for their Google Fi services as well as some of the new Wi-Fi 6 technology that's coming out. With that background in mind I'd like to for you to address please slide 3 for those who have the package. Bottom line up front is that when I received review and understanding of the clearing that was going on to Poorhouse Road I was very concerned when I understood it to be a radio frequency tower, a communications tower. Essentially the nine towers that were proposed that were put in the paper are not in ideal geographic locations. As Ms. Snyder pointed out we absolutely need an up-to-date data on the power supply and the power supply is an upgraded emergency system and unfortunately the locations that are being selected are not like physically ideal. Like the Lord is blessed Frederick County with some amazing geography. We've got some hills, we have lots of valleys, we have lots of hollows and unfortunately that is like death for RF from a communications perspective and it looks like the system that is being designed and rolled out is actually very different from the FOIA information that we received as part of our request to understand more about how EF Johnson originally came with up with these locations. So moving on to slide 5 if you would please in the FOIA EF Johnson original design the actual locations that they outlined were RF ideal. They were in areas that provided wide coverage, 360 degree antenna pattern offerings and giving you a robust emergency system with overlapping cells. In the current design if you want to go ahead to slide 7 the Frederick County Tower locations actually appear to be co-located simply by geographic of areas where the county owns the land as opposed to where the RF is actually properly propagating and so there's concern that you will end up paying millions of dollars for an RF communication system that's going to underperform from an emergency perspective for your support personnel. If you look some of the towers specific to the Poorhouse Road Tower had to be adjusted and moved on slide 8. The tower itself actually had to be physically relocated because it's at the base of a hill and the survey that was done as Ms. Schneider pointed out in the field was actually where it was originally proposed and they had to move it because of the RF quality of the area and they actually had to make the tower height significantly taller in order to meet the RF requirements for the distribution of the emergency system. So I would ask the board to please consider to look at the actual physics behind this. There is a significant concern after my 20 years of experience in this matter that you're going to be paying for a system that's not going to perform to the quality of service that you demand of your citizens. Thank you. Thank you. Joe Brand. Welcome sir. Thank you. Mr. Haven chairman and other members and supervisors and the July 19th Planning Commission, I'm going to ask you to speak to the county attorney. And again before I start I'm Joseph Brand from the Clearbrook Stonewall District. July 19th Planning Commission meeting it was unclear if the county was able to pass any regulations regarding the mining operations extractive mining and so I want to speak to this concern here tonight. I've also shared this now with Supervisor McCann Slaughter and we've also consulted with the county attorney that we are able as a county to actually apply various regulations around the extractive mining which would be a future acting towards any future permits that may be permitted but it would not be retroactive to the existing operations that are in place today. I did review the local waiver program which was discussed during the meeting where localities can take over regulation of extractive mining and this allows them to actually do more hands-on direct mining instead of leaving it to the state. I'm not advising that program for the Frederick County but it does imply that the county can be more stringent than state law. It cannot be less stringent and so the issue being you can't make it easier to polluter and do other things at the state and federal laws don't permit. I also searched and found other counties have actually enacted zoning and related to the extractive mining category in the areas of hours of operation, dust mitigation and control about washing down trucks covers, the typical things with land use and zoning setbacks and how many feet from the road can you do something and that type of hills and barriers and things like that in reviewing our current zoning ordinance I really only see two major areas that we are regulating and that is the building height of 45 feet and you can also apply for an exemption obviously car moose has an exemption because their building is more than 45 feet tall the other thing is we have setbacks from the road and from the neighborhood properties and where you can actually do the mining so there's only really the two things that we're limiting in the past many citizens have complained I've been to a couple other meetings where citizens are complaining about the neighbor that they have that is a mining operation and really there's a lot of feedback that has been provided the car moose with very little follow-through and I understand a lot of that is not enforceable because our hands are just tied because that's what was permitted at the time and so I'm asking for your consideration and looking at our current mining ordinances to put in some things based on your citizen feedback that would be more in line to helping any future operations be better neighbors to the ones that we have and so with that I'm just general categories would be around the hours of operations the blasting hours road debris making sure that they are taking care of the roads and cleaning up and the mountain height limit that we have we can't fix the one that's already there I know what they are and they're probably not going to be able to do that but I'm asking for your板 let me understand that and can you please repeat the key to just end these things so but um area that's mixed-use industrial, and you can't do that in an empty hole. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Board of Supervisors, comments are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. It's been a long day, but I want to just thank staff, especially their families, for the time they have. I know there's certain staff members have wives, kids, etc. It's close to 11 o'clock at night. In their normal business circumstances, you go home at 5 or 6, not at 11. Just let your wives and spouses know, husbands know, that we appreciate it. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Just in light of the comments that have been brought this evening in the citizens' comments period, specifically regarding the public safety radio communications system that we were installing, I would desire to have a closed session meeting to discuss the performance and implement implementation of the current radio system. In speaking with some other folks, I've had some advice given to me that we may not be getting what we think we're getting and that we need to have some serious conversations on the performance of the system that we may be receiving. I think that the gentleman that spoke this evening would be a wonderful person to invite to that closed session meeting to have some additional expert advice there as well. I think it would also behoove of us to at least, at minimum, reach out to some of the other contractors who bid that project, whether that be L3 Harris or whether that be Motorola, to also look at this. Just for some background, I did not vote for this current project, as they did not do due diligence, in my opinion. L3 Harris, when they went through and gave us their bid, they had given us specific sites and they tested where their sites were going to be and to assure that what they proposed would work. In discussion with them, as I've had some discussion afterwards, they had reached out to me on some other projects. I was working on with other counties. None of the other bidders, to their knowledge that I could find in our contracts, had done that. They had not tested the proposed tower sites and therefore we are running into the problems that we are seeing and facing today. It is my fear we're going to drop $25 million into a radio project and be no further ahead than where we are today, other than we have some new shiny toys. The big thing that we must look at as a locality is the residents, especially in our rural districts. It is sold to us that this project would help the residents in my district and the residents in Gainesboro specifically because of the rural topography. With what I am hearing, with what I am being told, with what was also brought up again this evening, it has been confirmed that what is being implemented presently with the current contract may not meet what was sold to us when we were here and having discussions. It would be my strongest I don't know if I need to make a, Mr. County Attorney, if you'd give me a little direction here. I think it's placement of an agenda item. And without more. And obviously the board has to vote to go into the closed session. So do I need a motion or can I simply request one? I think a request. We will have to ascertain the category that that fits under. Sure. So thank you, Mr. Williams. So with that note, Mr. Chairman, I would respectfully request a closed session meeting to discuss the performance and implementation of the public system, radio system, before our next scheduled board meeting. All right. Yes, sir. I didn't think we were going to talk about radios again. It's been a five years for some of us. But when we hired E.F. Johnson, we also have, and I don't know how the name off the top of my head, somebody that's meant to go and implement that and make certain that what E.F. Johnson said they would do would do. As Mr. Graber said, the other two had said certain place where we would have stuff. So I'd like to have at least a discussion. The purpose would be just to see if they're consistent with what they have said. We'd have a closed session while we're here. At least most of us are here when we're going through the radio situations. I remember during the debate we had, the question was where would they be specifically. And E.F. Johnson said they would meet certain standards. And the people we've hired to oversee that were meant to go and put those parameters there. So I'd be open to a closed session to discuss this. Mr. Chairman? Comments? Yes. Just wanted to add to that. Thank you for coming and speaking. I know I came into this process without a whole lot of knowledge, and I've been out there twice. And I think that we owe it to our county to make sure we're getting the best bang for our buck, but make sure it's done correctly. So thank you for requesting that. Other comments? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? But just recognize that this system we're putting together is designed for 911. So I'm not looking to sabotage the system. I'm just just for the record. We're just trying to address this one issue. And that a motion and that Mr. Chairman, I move that we adjourn. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. We'll stand adjourned. Move to closing. Any Carromen. Power. Just ahead Amy. function. Toender required. Emergency 101 recovered. Please remain seated. Second. To injury. Emergency 101 exhausted. Cleared for recovery. Okay. I don't think I'm concerned for you too. We're just going to have to figure out how to deal with that continue pigment as quickly as we possibly could. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
