Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2021-12-08
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=113
========================================================================

Fine. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Go ahead and call the meeting to order if we could, please. We're very fortunate and appreciative to have Pastor Cal Lauder, Pastor Emeritus at Valley Baptist Church in Stephen City to deliver our invocation. Thank you very much, sir, for being with us. Shall we pray? Our Father and our God, we are commanded in Scripture to pray for those in authority over us. And we thank you to you for your love and love of God. We thank you for your love of God. tonight that we can commit this meeting and these supervisors to your watch care. Give them direction, give them wisdom, give them insight as they hear arguments, as they hear issues addressed, that you will give them wisdom to make wise decisions. We thank you for Frederick County for the protection that you provided for this county. We thank you for those that are administering the affairs of this county. We pray Father that as we just lift them up before you that you will give them direction, that this meeting will truly be according to your will in whatever way you deceive fit. We thank you Father for this time and so we commit this service and this meeting to you. We ask it in Christ's name, amen. Amen. Thank you sir. Everybody can stand and face the flag. Please stand. Please stand. One nation under God indivisible with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. That will bring us to adoption of the agenda. Mr. Chairman. Yes sir. I would move to amend the agenda to remove item 12C. Heard the motion. Second. Second. Second. Second. All those in favor aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed no. We'll remove IC. Mr. Chairman I would move for adoption of the agenda as amended. Thank you sir. Second. Second. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed no. We'll adopt the agenda as amended. This is the opportunity for citizen comments on agenda items that are not subject to public hearing. Did anyone say no? No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Mr. Chairman to have Wendy Dorsey. elderly his If you could come to the podium share your name magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes or less please and pull that mic down words comfortable, Thank you, now. Thank you. I'm Wendy Dorsey from Gainsborough District and I appreciate your time this evening in the opportunity to speak. And I just like to say that. I just kind of want to put a face. face to the number of people who are in support of building an aquatic center and a skate park. I'm a parent of two children that went through the swim teams and high school swim teams, and I think it would be a wonderful thing for people of all ages, not just our children. So I would appreciate it very much if you would be able to begin discussions about that. So thank you very much. Thank you. Linda Tyler. Welcome. You know the drill. I know the drill. Thank you very much. Nice to see you all, and thank you for the supervisors that were willing to meet with me to discuss this opportunity for Frederick County. So I'm Linda Tyler, and I'm from the Stonewall District, and a little information. I am on the board for the 2 for 2 foundation for the swim and skate facility. I am a competitive swimmer back in the day. I was an Olympian back in the early 70s, and I couldn't have done that had we not had facilities for the development of swim programs, first and foremost. But I've been on this board since the foundation and incorporation in September. And we are trying to partner with Frederick County. We want to build and maintain for a number of years a swim and skate facility here in Frederick County. We are mindful that you do not want to add any monetary issues with the debt or debt service. That is to be commended. I know that the tax rate here is very important. So we heard you loud and clear. We needed to go out and find partners. We needed to find a way to be able to do this without using county funds. And to set up a way to maintain that. So I'm just in support of it. I'm here as a face of the board, the 2 for 2 foundation, and we would love to be able to explore with you all the possibilities of moving forward with this project. Thank you. Thank you. That's all, Mr. Chairman. Was there anyone else who wanted to speak to this subject? Seeing no one, we'll move on. Thank you. Thank you. Consent agenda. Would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. Motion and a second. Approve as submitted. Any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. That will bring us... Back to Board of Supervisors comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Earlier this year, we had a discussion on Juneteenth, but I just want you all to recognize that December 6th, two days ago, in 1865, Georgia voted for the 13th Amendment, which then made it official, and Secretary Seward passed it 14 days later. So when we talk about the end of slavery, just remember in history classes, et cetera, it was December 1865 and June 6th that that occurred, there were 40,000 slaves in Missouri, there were slaves in Delaware, New Jersey, D.C., and Maryland at the time. They all became free because of the 13th Amendment and not Juneteenth. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Anyone else? Hearing no one, we'll move forward. Vice Chairman Wells, if you could give me a hand. Ms. Shealy, if you could join us on the front of the room, if you would, please. Thank you. There we are. The Board would like to recognize Sheila Harden, who was selected as Employee of the Year from among a group of employees who were awarded the Employee of the Year award. Ms. Shealy, please. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Shealy, please. Ms. Shealy, please. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I would like to recognize the Board that has selected Sheila Harden from among a group of employees who were awarded the Employee of the Month award during 2020 and 2021. The pandemic interrupted the regular awarding of Employee of the Month designations, and we are happy to be returning to normal. Sheila was chosen as Employee of the Month in January of 2020 and was selected by the Human Resources Committee at the December 2021 meeting as Employee of the Year. Congratulations, Sheila. The Board of Supervisors extends gratitude to her. Gratitude to you for your outstanding performance, dedicated service, and we wish you continued success in future endeavors. Please join me in congratulating and thanking Ms. Shiloh for a job well done. All right. Mr. Barker, presentation. Wait, no, Mr. Barker. No problem. All right. Oops, we're going too fast. I really appreciate you all having me here tonight. Very excited to give you an update on what's going on with economic development. We're going to kind of frame our conversation by highlighting a program or two from each one of the four kind of core areas of our strategic plan. The first one being the talent engagement, which obviously revolves around making sure our employers both now and tomorrow are going to have a workforce. We're very, very excited. We're very excited to bring back after a little bit delay the world's work program. It's a fantastic program. We're to work with the seven different school districts and other EDOs to bring together the middle school population to interact with our employers in kind of a hands-on environment. We target the middle school period because that's when they start doing their career planning. So it's a great opportunity to expose our students, our future workforce to kind of the local careers that are here available for them so when they go back to do their career planning, they'll have a better future. They'll have a better idea of what kind of classes to select to get the kind of careers that they're looking for. Also we're doing another aspects related to the other talent and that's implementing our talent retention attraction strategy that we had done a couple of years back. We're doing the kind of low hanging fruit aspects of it right now. The first one being the website portal, which both current residents and employers can use when trying to consider whether or not to stay or move to the market. It's going to be very interesting. We're going to be doing a lot of work on that. We're going to be doing a lot of work on that. We're going to be doing a lot of work on that. It's going to be very interactive. It'll have several calculators on the site, one for the cost to do that for their commute, another one to identify their cost of living. We're in the process of adding a job search portal into that. Once that job search gets in there, then we have a very robust marketing campaign planned to make sure that our current residents and our employers know about this additional tool they have when trying to examine workforce because as we all know for a lot of our employers, workforce is a big, big item of attention, which we're going to be doing a lot more we'll touch on a little bit later on next we move on to kind of what i consider our bread and butter for frederick county and that's our business retention side to make sure that our current companies that are here are happy and they start staying here and want to continue to grow here so that's obviously for these folks finding workers has been the number one challenge they've had to get very inventive and then how they do that there are people out there but they've had to work a lot harder and a lot go a lot farther to get those people it's kind of coupled with the fact you're dealing with one of the lowest labor participation rates in the state of virginia and since i've been around so it's an acceptable hard challenge for them trying to do that so you know again they are finding people we are still seeing within our existing base modest growth inside that a lot of retooling a lot of them are trying to adapt to the labor situation they are bringing in more machines more technology so they have to need kind of less people as they go forward but you know smarter and more highly paid individuals the second thing we have going on this kind of a birth out of covid that everyone saw the restaurants took a real big hit during that and they're obviously a very important part of our economy and it kind of wraps in all the different aspects of our food economy so we we've launched frederick county eats restaurant week which is really a celebration a showcase of our local restaurants in the area it's the first step of the overall frederick county eats program which is really targeting to bring together both the agriculture the production the distribution and the dining experiences that frederick county has to offer that is planned to happen in kind of that the last week of january into february where restaurants that agree to participate will have specialized menus and such for that time to get people in the community out to the experience some of the local cuisine the local chef artists that we are thoroughly blessed with in frederick county another way that we're again trying to make sure that our economy continues continues to progress and stays proactive next we talk about one that we're traditionally known for i guess in in the public and that's business attraction and who you're looking to bring to the market this is something that we make sure we do in kind of a strategic measured way before we get into kind of the meat of it on the traditional sense of what we're seeing it's been a very consistent trend of high power demand users looking in the market so anything from data centers to electric vehicle manufacturer components and such as well as advanced manufacturers and such we've obviously with that they're targeting a lot of the areas where we have robust electrical infrastructure already in place of which there's only a few areas in the county that have that so that obviously is a big part of that the beauty for those high power demands that usually come with a high capital investment total as well as highways jobs which again from the eda our mission is create tax revenue and create high quality jobs so it hits a lot of those marks um like anything we've seen a lot of rising a number of developers looking to move into the market for speculative nature development traditionally bent on distribution so that's something that continues to happen so on the other side we've been doing on that this attraction is we're updating our targeted businesses for a lot of in our business you know both the site consultants in the state want to know who it is frederick county is targeting we are traditionally done had a list of this for several years we're now in the process of updating that in a more robust level the first step really is identifying which one of those sectors that are growing overall inside the state of virginia in our area then we are going to filter that based on what's actually happening what projects are are actually coming out of the ground and then filtering down from there which ones are going to provide wages that are going to be at or above the county average which is around 50 000 a year and then finally that's going to be on the top of our list and then we're going to look at the next steps so the next one is when we got to get to our priority targets now that's kind of the the short end of it and I would say this project is still ongoing the next slide really kind of gets to the devil and the details as far as how we get there probably the biggest one on there is the last one even if a industry comes through and it has all the aspects that I've talked about we have to be able to develop a value proposition to that sector so if that's something that we cannot articulate in a strong fashion it just gives us homework that we have to do to figure out what we have to do to make Frederick County's value proposition to that sector stronger and that's an aspect that I'm really looking forward to see where we go with that to give the county some ideas if we're gonna try to move us forward in a way that creates those those jobs that you know are kind of the target for the EDA that what's that path to get there so we're pretty excited about that and where that goes then obviously a lot to talk about related to the grocery stores a lot of the other things that we're going to talk about in the next couple of days a lot of it came out of some requests from from this board for these board members here a lot of the logos you see are the ones that we went actively out to target they receive packages like the one else on the slide I'm pleased to report out of all those eight of them actually got back to us which in a sense is that accomplishment for them I'm still trying to play hide-and-go-seek but we're out that we're gonna keep hitting them in a proper fashion of those eight there's three what I call active interest which means that they are actively looking at a particular putting additional stores in the market the when the where you know that's kind of up to them but at least they are looking in the market there's an additional four that have they know our market they are looking at our market but we're not quite there on their radar for a lot of different factors so you know what for those all can gather we still have a kind of regular check-in with them in an appropriate time period until they tell me to leave them alone just to see where they are with process and then we'll see what happens next. you know we're not going to be able to go back and forth with them so it's definitely something that we're going to be looking at and or if something comes to the market that bears information then we make sure they have that information so out of that only one of them said thanks we're just not in the business on looking at the market so we moved on so again some positive aspect on that but hopefully we'll we'll get some that I'll actually decide to move forward the last aspect asked is a pretty important one as well as the other is the business climate this is making sure the Furt County remains a very important part of the state's economy and for us the big side of that comes down to making sure that we have land available land if you know we're here we talked about the top ten list is always up in there so for Frederick County to be successful we've got to have land for that and thankfully the state has set up a process for us to kind of evaluate our properties with the business ready site program which has a set of tiers that go on there for us kind of where you want to be that that's the kind of that has everything in place infrastructure you know or a way to get there zoning and that kind of thing so that's the big side of that comes down to making sure that we have land available and such so the EDA has been very active in making sure that our larger zone industrial lands or have been getting tiered as property comes to be so we're currently moving forward kind of the next round of sites the first one being at the Winchester Regional Airport and those 60 acres they have on north of the runway and then we have three other additional sites one around the exit three 317 next to Rutherford crossing a couple of sites inside Stonewall Industrial Park and then another site up on Route 11 north and the beauty of this process it really gives both the landowner and the EDA a firm understanding or the readiness status of that property it takes a lot of the risk factor out when clients come in I know I say this a lot the site selection process starts out at the site elimination process the more we can do to lower the risk factor for companies looking in this market is a good step in the right direction so for us that's a positive side and going forward so again that's the the end of my formal remarks I'm happy to entertain any questions if there are any but we're really excited the direction that the EDA is going we got a lot on our plate we're happy to do it we know there's a long way left to go we know it's a tough economy for our employers as it relates to labor but we know we have a great community we have a great product we just got to find the right niche for us for that long-term future Thank You mr. Barker any questions anyone thank you very much sir well done we certainly appreciate all you do and the way you do it and your staff and the EDA is going to be a great part of this. outstanding thank you sir thank you all right committee appointments we have an application of Seth Thatcher for the Hanley Regional Lab Reboard how would the board like to handle this one chairman I would move that we accept the application from mr. Thatcher second second is there any discussion all those in favor aye aye opposed no mr. Thatcher is appointed planning commission we have a four-year seat in Back Creek and an application miss Molly Brannan mr. chairman I want a nominate Molly Brannan to fill the unexpired term of that was vacated that ends on February of 2024 second and a second any discussion all those in favor aye aye Postno miss Brannan is appointed for your term stonewall district of wh ress All Cars Mayor orndorff See you next time privileging dry irradiates from a Indonesiairen all right up here in south any question up in the Jerome inference website at東ép north emergency office is affording as well for any current matters of emergency before the mercury storm or storm situation andクس consider the opportunity for your office every couple weeks. all the way around you Mr.ların akuaic interest In energizing the air to use up or put you in need will yes and Kee prepared us a base and thank you Ms Brandt website run on 1 K which will make Supervisor Slaughter. Mr. Chairman, I would move for the nomination of William A. Orndorff to fill the unexpired term of Mr. Klein through February 12th of 2024. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Board of Equalization. Three-year term application of Mr. Jake Carpenter. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to appoint Jake Carpenter to the Board of Equalization, and I guess that is approved by the, is that approved by the court? It goes to the circuit court, yes, for approval. So I would make the nomination to move that forward. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll send that recommendation forward to the court. Board of Zoning Appeals. This one also goes to the circuit court. We have an application of Dudley Rinker from Back Creek, eligible and willing to serve another term. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I spoke to Mr. Rinker. He is interested in serving, and I would like to nominate him for recommendation to the court. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Rinker will be forwarded as a recommendation to the circuit court. Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Board. We have an application of Mr. Baker, Kenneth Baker. It's Back Creek. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Baker does desire to be reappointed, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Baker is appointed. Northern Chantel Valley Regional Commission. It's a four-year term. Blaine Dunn. And Mr. Dunn is eligible for reappointment. Mr. Chairman, I would move that we reappoint Blaine Dunn. Motion and a second. Second. And a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Thank you, sir. Regional Jail Authority. Thank you. Judith McCann Slaughter. Her term expires. She's eligible for reappointment. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would move that we nominate or reappoint Supervisor McCann Slaughter. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ms. Slaughter is reappointed. Just as informational, the Hanley Regional Library Board still has two vacancies. We're still looking for citizens from Frederick County. Okay. It's willing to fill those. Historic Resources Advisory Board and Shawnee has a vacancy. And the Social Services Board, Red Bud. All right. That'll bring us to committee business. Under 9A, the Finance Committee, Supervisor Slaughter. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. The Finance Committee met on November 17th at 8 a.m. The first item. The second item is the Winchester Regional Airport. Executive Director requests an airport capital fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $1,500,000 and a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $225,000 pending grant award. These amounts represent a potential DOAV grant and the requested local share. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. All right. Thank you. All right. The motion is approved. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Hearing none. Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number two, the Zoning Administrator Requested Development Projects Fund and a General Fund Supplemental Appropriation in the amount of $310,000. This amount represents the funds needed for the completion of Marion Drive. Local funds are required. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I understand what we're trying to accomplish here and I understand the need. It really concerns me that we are possibly opening Pandora's box to finish subdivisions where the contractor has pulled out. And so, I will begrudgingly support this. However, I just don't feel like this is an avenue that the county should be going down. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Chairman? Yes, sir. I would support this primarily because the county has a responsibility to home buyers in this county to ensure that the contractors are paying in the appropriate bonds and letters of credit in order to protect those potential buyers and other members of our community to ensure that they can continue to live a good life. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would support this primarily because the county has a responsibility to ensure that these things get done. In this case, this is one of the very few times when this kind of fell through the cracks. And I don't think the members of our community who were reliant upon the county government to do the job should be penalized for the failure of that to happen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Is there further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Mr. Chairman, as a point of information, the Government Finance Officers Association has awarded the county the Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting for the June 30, 2020 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report. This is the 35th consecutive year that Frederick County has received this achievement. And I would like to recognize our Finance Director and the Excellence Director. I would like to thank all of the staff that work in this department for maintaining this consistency in achievement and representing us. Absolutely. Thank you. And that will conclude my report, sir. All right. Thank you. Committee Business, Human Resources Committee. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, the Human Resources Committee met this month and the committee recommends approval of a proposed revision to Frederick County Human Resource Policies. Right. Thank you. Yes, sir. Let me reconcile this slapstick. This is the improvement Me Appreciate All Your cercro works and we thank you in advance, Mr. Chairman. It will lead us to approval for evidence that presently I was not discussing comments or any VA online matters. That's in line with what you're Zielnya else to пойдance their comments about, that was to switch the questions, that was the record of the Enrollment Group report. But let me think what other points were add there. Any other questions, Sir? No, sir, afternoon public battles. Yeah, I think I just wanted to remind everybody who will participate and think about through that. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Number two, the committee recommends approval of proposed revisions made to Frederick County Human Resource Policy driver authorization policy, which have been reviewed by the county's insurance provider. And I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Does that conclude? Thank you, sir. Well done. All right. Item number 11A is an ordinance to amend Chapter 7 elections, Frederick County Code. Mr. Williams, thank you, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is a follow-up to the item from last month in our once every 10-year exercise of the redistricting. This should take a lot less time than last month. After last month's public hearing, and we knew going in that there were some likely defects with the way the maps came out, and now we have it settled and we received some good progress. We're going to move on to item number 11A, which is an ordinance to amend the public comments. So this is a revision that addresses those comments and meets the various standards that are required to be met. What you will see here are the map of the county with the six districts, also showing the precincts. This is exactly as advertised. We've made one very small change that I'll note. It's a minor change. It does not require re-advertising. It's only to one small precinct line adjustment. So I will go through this. After that, I'll take any questions, and then it's a public hearing, and if it's the board's pleasure to adopt it. I will note as well, I did make a submission to the Supreme Court of Virginia, urging them to honor the county's lines as best as possible when they draw the state legislative lines. It literally was impossible for us to do that. We had to do it in a way that was not in line with the existing lines that the general assembly gave us 10 years ago. Hopefully, they will come close to our lines in the process this year, and hopefully, for sure, not split us amongst three general assembly districts, considering the county only has a population of 92,000, and a general assembly district only needs to be about 84,000. So these are the districts. There's the county-wide map. And again, the major, so to speak, adjustments to Opecan are on the north end of it, because Opecan was one of the two districts that grew the most. So we have, there are some areas, particularly there, that are west of Tasker Road and east of Aller Road, I'm sorry, west of Warrior Drive, east of Aller Road, and south of Tasker Road that shift into the Shawnee District. This is the only instance. We had where we had a bit of a line through a neighborhood, but it is much less of a surgery than what we had last time. It follows one of the major streets through the subdivision that is very noticeable on a map from a distance. So that is Opecan. Also, we received input from the voter registrar on updating, as appropriate, the precinct names. So these have the most updates. We have updated precinct names, which were also advertised as that. Moving on to Shawnee, there is the new Shawnee. It's the yellows and the reddish color on that map. Again, the significant change there is the portion of Opecan that picks up to the south, as well as the fact that the portion that is particularly east of Route 50, again, had seen presence on Weakness River. The teams that find that position, pick up from установ assessor. They thin Rayward and recorded worked out numbers from time to time, and lost count of them. intact from where we were 10 years ago. I know in the original draft that came last month, the area in the Ash Hollow area north of Valley Mill Road, that draft had that shifting to Stonewall. It's being left in Redbud. And like I said, the noticeable difference here is that Redbud extends south now. And I know this looks dramatic because honestly, the geographic area of the district is probably doubling. But population-wise, it's keeping right in line with all the others. The area that it's picking up is the least densely populated area of the district. Moving on to Stonewall. Stonewall was one of the districts, the two districts that grew the most because Snowden Bridge was the big factor there. As late as the early 2000s, it was the biggest area of the district. So, it's a big area. And I know that the area that's picking up is the least densely populated area of the district. Lake Frederick and other developments were the big factor in Opec. So, what has happened with Stonewall, the major adjustment is after 2010, Stonewall ran from east of Apple Pie Ridge Road the rest of the way through the county to the Opec Creek. Now, a significant portion of the area that was east of Apple Pie Ridge Road and west of Interstate 81 shifts over to Gainesboro. But there is still a significant area of Stonewall that is remaining west of Interstate 81. And that also properly addresses the results of the most recent election. Moving on to Gainesboro. Gainesboro, of course, picks up that area of Stonewall. Also, one difference from the version you saw last month is that that segment that is south, the western segment there south of Route 50, Gore and past Gore along Route 259, that is being retained in Gainesboro as it currently is. The draft from last month had shifted that back to Back Creek. It was in Back Creek prior to the last census. So, that's where we are with Gainesboro and then Back Creek, finishing our counterclockwise trip. Back Creek, not a lot of change there. Really, at all. The only thing, and this is where we do have the one slight difference, and I apologize, I did not bring the laser pointer, but I think there's only one thing to point out here. I think I can describe it. At the Gore and Russells precincts at the north end there, there's a triangle that's formed by Route 50, Back Mountain Road, and South Hayfield Road. In the advertised version, we had that triangle in the Gore precinct. It has about a hundred residents, if that. We've switched it over to Russells. It does not upset the requirements for the population size of the precincts in any material way. The reason for this change is this. It gives us flexibility in selection of a polling place going forward. Right now, Russells votes at Round Hill, a fire station. There is the possibility of the need to look for a different location for that precinct. By making this shift, it makes it legally possible to have Russells vote at Indian Hollow Elementary School. Without that shift, Indian Hollow was more than a mile away. Indian, because Indian Hollow's right about at the top end of where the 50 symbol is there, without that shift, Indian Hollow would have been more than a mile from the precinct, and therefore an impermissible polling place for that precinct. The precinct locations, we are not making any changes from what was advertised, and pretty much all of the existing precincts are staying in use. I think the only one for sure, the physically new location we added was Jordan Springs Elementary School because obviously that didn't exist 10 years ago. And as well, the new Aller Middle School is coming in to play here too, but that's really just replacing the old Aller. That is it. Again, there may be follow-up in the next couple months or so, depending upon exactly what the Supreme Court does when they draw the lines for the state legislative districts. I think that the special master is due to provide their special masters. They've appointed. They're due to provide a report recommendation of the court within the next couple of weeks. So we should know what happens there. But other than that, hopefully that doesn't require too much adjustment to what we have. These districts are within about 4% deviation population from each other, which is well within any tolerance range that the courts have historically insisted on. I'm available for questions. Questions of Mr. Williams. Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Mr. Williams, just to confirm, this will allow us, assuming it's approved, this would allow us to maintain all of the incoming elected officials, school boards, board of supervisors in those seats, correct? It does. Okay. And earlier when you had mentioned that the precinct places hadn't changed, does that mean the polling places? The polling, the physical polling place locations have not changed. Obviously, there will be a number of citizens who will be voting. And we're not voting in new locations because many of the precinct lines, and in some cases, obviously, the districts changed. So some representations will change. Do we have to wait 10 years to adjust the polling places if we found that it was untenable to remove? We do not. Okay. As a matter of fact, if they get too big, we're required to change it. The only thing that the board can't change is the actual magisterial districts, other than possibly slight adjustments to conform with the General Assembly districts. Thank you. Other questions? Anyone? Thank you very much, sir. Okay. How would the board like to handle this one? Public hearing. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? Brian Nury. Welcome, sir. Welcome. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Brian Nury. I'm a resident of the Opec District. I just wanted to applaud the GIS Department and Mr. Williams on drawing these lines. I would never have been able to do that. I'm a liberal arts student. I'm a history major. I can't do math like this. But one thing that really stuck out to me, at the bottom of the Stonewall District, there's a new precinct named the Gibson School. And I think that with Mr. Dunn's comment earlier about Juneteenth, that this is actually pretty prescient to him. That precinct is named after Mr. Powell Gibson, who was the principal of the Winchester Colored School. And in 1916, when he took it over, he renamed it. The Frederick Douglass School. It was the only school for blacks in Frederick County and mostly in the region. And he and his son both ended up being prominent members of this community. Now, I think that having a man like that serving his community in a time when African Americans were suffering under Jim Crow, and this was under the popularity of Birth of a Nation, was being screened at the White House at that point, that this is a great tribute for Frederick County to recognize one of our communities that has... has gone unrecognized for so many years. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Rick Miller. Welcome, Mr. Miller. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, supervisors, our new county administrator and staff. My name is Rick Miller. I reside in the Back Creek Magisterial District. And I was recently retired as the voter registrar and director of elections for 15 years. I would like to compliment the GIS staff and the voter registration office for their immense work in this plan, which is really, really astounding. For example, in 2000, Frederick County had a population of just over 59,000. In 2010, it was 78,000, an increase of almost 20,000 people. And in 2020... In 2020, our census is now 91,417, which is another increase of 13,000. So in 20 years, Frederick County has grown over 35%. So we are definitely on the growth side in Virginia. In 2011, when I was involved with the redistricting with the great help of my friend Patrick Fly back there, the GIS manager, keep him, he's a good man. And we moved over 10,000 voters on 4th. And now we're moving it up another 400 streets in the new precincts. And that is not counting what we had to do with the House of Delegates, which where we went from the 29th and the 18th, north, south, to the 29th, 10th and 33rd. So it's really, really something. And I think the new plan is great. It creates seven new precincts, and it's a reasonable balance. It brings a number of precincts now to 29, including Central Absentee. places chosen all have good entrances and exits, adequate regular and handicapped parking, and good building accessibility. All these polling places are in 19 public schools, 18 public schools, two fire halls, and one library, which are public buildings, which is a great factor because it so helps to have it in a public building that it just helps greatly. Second reason is none of the schools or the fire halls or the library have ever charged us a usage fee or a cleaning fee, which I know happens in other localities and that has to be part of the registrar's budget. We have a great working relationship with our schools and our fire halls and our library and I really hope that keeps up. The one thing that came up last time, there was mention of having two precincts and one polling place. Well, Frederick County has had that for 10 years. The James Wood High School has been the Albany name precinct for 10 years. It's never been a real issue. We've always had good signage. It's worked well. Now you're going to have seven polling places that are going to serve two precincts also. That's going to be an education for the voters, but it will work. It truly will work. I've got one more thing, if that's okay. Yes, sir. This is the most important to me. Launched number of increase in precincts. Crucial item. Recruiting, training and maintaining officers of election because that's who runs the elections on election day. We can't do it without the officers of election. I would highly recommend, looking at this with basically 30 precincts and you're going to need six people per precinct, you need 180 officers of election. You better have a pool of 240 because you will lose people for different reasons getting there. I would ask the Board and the county staff and everyone in the audience, if you know any of your family, your friends, your neighbors who you think might be interested in being an officer of election, have them contact the voter registration office because it doesn't happen without these people. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. John Roberts. At welcome, sir. Now raise that microphone. Mr. Project. Thank you. Yes, thank you. Mr. President, thank you let me telephone with Mr. Jacobs. Mr. President, thank you. There you go. Thank you. I'm John Roberts, and I live in Shawnee District, and I have served as a poll worker in several elections. And my concern is looking in the newspaper in Parkers Mill and White Oak School District, they were going to share the Bowman Library. And having served as a poll worker in the Bowman Library, I don't see how they can have two pollings in the same place. The library only has one meeting room, and you can't split it where you could have the elections. The schools, they have a cafeteria and they have a gym, so you can have a dual election in one of those facilities. So I would consider, you know, have you reconsider using RML or one of the schools instead of doubling in the Bowman Library. Thank you, sir. That's all, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else who would like to speak to this item? Anyone? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment portion. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, in response to the citizen's comment who just spoke, that actually is another update that, and maybe that didn't show up in the draft that most recently went out, but White Oak School Precinct, which is a new precinct, is going to go to RML, not Bowman. And the current voter registrar. Noted that, too, that the Bowman parking situation just doesn't work, and RML's got a better situation. Well done. Thank you, sir. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Move for adoption of the ordinance. Motion to adopt. Is there a second? Second. And is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Aye. The vote's aye, and the motion carries. That will bring us to the next public hearing. Conditional use permit 0821. Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. As you noted, this is a conditional use permit public hearing for the Southern State's Co-op. The request is for an agricultural supply cooperative, or rather an expansion of the existing agricultural supply cooperative, to allow for the construction of a sales building and storage area for the existing Southern State's cooperative facility. This is located at 5844 Valley Pike in the Opec and Magitarials District on a 5.064 acre parcel zoned RA, which you can see on the screen here. Weing on to the latest van for theants. Of course, gluc tense oral and boards from about bean hard to measure in some of the lower vertical pulleys. sales building with paved parking area, a connecting roadway to the existing operations for access purposes. Worth noting that is avoiding a new entrance. They will be operating off their current entrance and accessing the new parcel via this connecting roadway. A gravel storage lot, underground fuel storage, and storage buildings and sheds. And here you have a sketch plan of the parcel. Once again, here is your existing facility which is located to the north. You have your connector road right here. And that's actually an existing building. This is a new structure for a proposed office and parking. You'd have additional zoning ordinance standards that regulate the use under 165.204.34. We do believe this to be in conformance with your comprehensive plan, which designates this as a new building in the area to remain rural in nature with support for business opportunities for rural landowners, which is somewhat of the definition of a farmer's cooperative. Should the Board find this used to be appropriate, the Planning Commission has recommended the following conditions of approval. As usual, all review agency comments shall be complied with at all times. An engineered site plan in accordance with the requirements of Article 8 of the Federal Gounding Zoning Ordinance shall be submitted, and subject to approval by county staff prior to the establishment of the use. Site plan shall address the additional regulations in the zoning ordinance that I just referred to, and also that it will be in general conformance with the sketch plan that has been provided by Gray-Wolf, which I showed you a moment ago. In addition, any expansion or modification of this land use would require an additional, require approval of a new conditional use permit, and a new zoning ordinance. And also to comply with the HRAB comments, the applicant shall incorporate a vegetative buffer of one native species tree per 40 foot along US 11 frontage, and if you'll allow me to go back to that sketch plan I referenced earlier, those trees are noted on there. It's a little hard to see on this on your screen. You can probably see it better on your tablet, but those are noted on that sketch plan as well. And finally, I will notice that you have recently, made modifications to your ordinance regarding offsite fuel sales by facilities such as these. That is of course a separate action from what you're considering tonight, although it does apply to cooperatives in their operations. With that, I can take any questions you may have. As noted, this is a public hearing, and Mr. Gary Oates is here this evening representing the Southern States Cooperative. Thank you, any questions for Mr. Bishop? I don't see any. Is there anything you'd like to add, Mr. Oates? We'd like to answer any questions. Any questions of Mr. Oates? Anyone? Hearing none, thank you, sir, for being here. It's a public hearing. Anyone sign up, Ms. Wheeler? No, sir. No? Is there anyone who would like to speak concerning this conditional use permit? Yes, sir. Good evening, everyone. My name is Brian Nury, resident of the Opecan District, and someone who lives right down the street from this, uh, proposed facility. One thing that I didn't hear during the presentation is the expected added road traffic on 11 at that point. We already have the proposed industrial park just north of that, and also the subdivision just north of that, and we still have 11 on two lanes. And in front of, before you get to the industrial park, it turns into almost a corduroy road, because the road, the road has not been updated in 40-something years. So I'm just curious as to what the increase of road traffic would entail, and what effect that would have on a two-lane U.S. highway. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment portion. Supervisor? Mr. Oates, would you like to speak? I can speak to it, or you can speak to it? Go ahead. Since you're the engineer involved. Thanks, sir, Gary Oates. I don't foresee much of an increase in traffic. The main use of this is to have a place to store materials. Right now, with the shortage in materials throughout the country, southern states is looking for a place where they can buy bulk, get more material in, have it on site for sales. The majority of this would be things like feed trawls, gates, fencing, that type of thing for farmers. So unless we have a dramatic increase in farming, I don't think the traffic's gonna change. Good wish. Thank you, sir. Thanks, Gary. All right, how would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, this is Puckin District, so. Yes, sir. I would recommend that we approve the conditional use permit 08-21 for southern states. Manchester Cooperative has submitted. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. We'll bring us to an additional public hearing. CUP 0921, Mr. Klein. Thank you, sir. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board of Supervisors, this is a conditional use permit request for a special event facility at 1454 Apple Pie Ridge Road in the Stonewall District. The proposed event facility is located on a property totaling approximately 303 acres, and that property is owned to R.A. Rural Areas, and it's primarily used as a residence and agricultural. Directing your attention to the screen to your left, getting that subject property is outlined in blue on Apple Pie Ridge Road. It's about two miles north of James Wood High School and north of Glendobbin Road. The applicant is proposing use of their existing barn on the property as an event space for events for up to 200 persons. There's no on-site kitchen facility proposed with this event center. They intend to utilize outside food and beverage services. They have a designated gravel parking area on the site, which they know in their application can accommodate up to 100 vehicles. They will utilize portable restroom facilities, and they do, have a designated area on their site for that, that is screened from view. And they are proposing that these events be held May through October, and they anticipate bimonthly events. I would note that at the time of the public hearing, the applicant has had six events this year, and we have not received any complaints. This is the sketch plan provided by the applicant again for your orientation, the property is outlined in that teal color, and Apple Pie Ridge Road is the entrance to the property on the left-hand side of the screen. Again, you have a, you have a, one of the movie notes may be called in a different color. the left-hand side of the screen. Again, you have a, one of the movie notes may be called in a different color. Fairly long access driveway. It actually goes up over the hill and then back down towards the barn. This is the event space highlighted here, the northernmost part of the compound, the designated gravel parking area. And there's a number of other outbuildings on the property, including a historic home known as the Ray Barton House. Again, this is a better image provided by the applicants, an aerial shot of the property. Again, for your orientation, Apple Park Ridge Road kind of forms this crest here. So you can see the topography of the site coming from Apple Park Ridge Road. You follow that access driveway down and back up over the hill and then back down towards the event space. Again, when we're talking about the event, the barn, that's this structure here on the right-hand side of the screen. Again, one more image from the applicants of their event barn and that designated gravel parking area that they've constructed to accommodate the parking. The zoning ordinance contains a number of supplemental uses. Supplemental regulations for this type. The applicant is meeting those requirements. That's things like having a designated parking area, the use of portable restroom facilities and ensuring that they're screened for view. And then, again, the comprehensive plan intends for this area to remain rural and to support business opportunities for rural landowners, which, again, this does. So should the Board of Supervisors find this use to be appropriate, the Planning Commission has recommended that the following conditions of approval be attached to that approval. Number one, that review agency comments be complied with at all times. Number two, that it aligns. Number three, that a modified commercial entrance meeting all of the current Virginia Department of Transportation or VDOT standards be permitted and installed within one year of the approval of this application. Number four, that events shall start no earlier than noon and all events and related activities shall conclude by 11 p.m. that amplified outdoor music shall conclude by 9 p.m. Number five, that special events may accommodate up to and not to exceed 200 persons. Number six, that one monument-style sign with a maximum sign area not to exceed 50 square feet and not to exceed 10 feet in height be permitted. And then number seven, that any expansion or modification of this use will require the approval of a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item on November 17th, and they recommended approval. And following the public hearing this evening, staff is seeking a decision by the Board on this proposed conditional use permit application. Ms. Catherine Sullenberger, representing the application, is here this evening as well, and I'm happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you. Questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? Thank you, sir. Ms. Sullenberger, anything you'd like to add? I'll say a few words if you don't mind. Welcome. Mr. Chairman, Supervisor, so good to see you. It's been quite a while. I have my coat on because it's a little chilly in here. I don't normally wear a coat when I'm speaking, but very excited about this opportunity to talk about the Wright-Barton property, which is where Rebecca Wright was born. She was very... very instrumental in the Civil War. She was a Quaker, was born and raised there. It goes back two more generations to the Wright family there. And then Colonel Barton, he was also a very prominent lawyer here, and he was in the Civil War as well. That was his farm and dairy barn. So the barn that we show in the picture here and the one that we have restored was built around 1890. It's not the earliest barn. But I'm just excited to be able to share this with the general public and brides and whoever would like to have a party there. And we've had very good success with people enjoying the historic nature and that it's rustic. So it's very rustic, but we have done some improvements and looking forward to getting the VDOT entrance installed and also repaving part of the hillside because it's a little bit rugged right now. So does anyone have any questions? Questions, Ms. Ulmer? Anyone? Thank you very much. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Ulmer? No, sir. Thank you. Is there anyone who would like to speak to this application? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment portion. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, this is Stonewall, at least for now until probably December 31st. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I did collaborate with the Gainesboro District Representative as well, Ms. Ulmer. So having said that, I would recommend the approval of Conditional Use Permit 0921 for KSS-LC. Second. And the second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. We've gone through lots of CUPs. This is one I particularly like because you're trying to save a farm, save an historic building, save an historic area. So I just suggest that you consider a historic CUP and market it as such. Really wish you well. I appreciate what you put forward in for what we read and did an excellent job. Thank you. Anyone else? I would just like to commend Ms. Sullenberger as well for her preservation efforts. It's a lovely, lovely setting. So. Anyone else? Are we ready? Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries and CUP is approved. All right. Mr. Klein. Ordinance amendments, deep slopes, and a number of different modifications. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. We'll walk through all those. Again, this is a proposal to two sections of the county's ordinance. Okay. So, the zoning ordinance, Chapter 144, our subdivision of land, and Chapter 155, or 165, rather, the zoning ordinance. And this is an effort to clarify, amend, and remove requirements contained in the following sections, general provisions, supplementary use regulations, regulations for specific uses, and design standards. And again, we'll walk through each of those changes. The first item for your consideration, it pertains to steep slopes. And this is, the definition of steep slopes is actually contained in both our subdivision and our zoning ordinance. And this is, again, a revision to amend that definition from 15% and 50% respectively to a consistent standard among both ordinances of 35%. Both chapters apply to a number of land use applications and applying a consistent standard has been a challenge. And this is an effort to ensure that we are able to apply a consistent standard across all application types. The next item pertains to supplementary use regulations for farm wineries, farm breweries, and farm disposal. And this is a revision to remove provisions for festival permits. As you all will recall, earlier this year, you all removed chapter 86 of the county code, which contained the requirements for festival permits. And this amendment would eliminate that requirement, which is still in the text. And it would also remove that limitation of 100 persons for events held at farm wineries, breweries, and distilleries. The next item relates to inoperable motor vehicles. This is a definition of a limited number of vehicles. This is a change to part 101, the definition, and also part 204, again, the supplemental use regulations. And this is a revision to prohibit the unscreened storage of inoperable trailers. That includes trailers, camping trailers, and semi-trailers. And it's an effort to treat them the same as we treat other inoperable motor passenger vehicles. And again, the ordinance prohibits the unscreened outdoor storage of inoperable motor vehicles. This amendment is still in effect. This amendment is seeking to regulate trailers in the same manner. And staff would note that it doesn't, we would not apply that standard to farm use trailers, just like we don't apply that inoperable motor vehicle standard to farm use vehicles. So farm use vehicles and trailers would not be affected by this change. Our next ordinance amendment, it relates to pedestrian access. And this is contained in part two of three of the ordinance under the motor vehicles access. And this is a revision to amend that section as it pertains to pedestrian access. And as you can see, the order is not in the original state. And that is, we don't have a policy in place to regulate car access to a particular site. And so, we're going to use that section as it pertains to pedestrian walkways and trails to insure that we're able to have pedestrian accommodations for individual sites to implement comprehensive plan policies. The zoning ordinance currently refers to this corridor walkway plan, which isn't something that the county has had in the past. But we do have language in our comprehensive plan that outlines requirements for sidewalks and trails along major roadways. policies. Finally our last amendment pertains to street design. This is a change to Chapter 144, the subdivision of land, and it is a revision to modify the requirements for the minimum right-of-way for each street classification. Those are going to be your local streets, your minor collector roads, your major collectors and arterial roadways. This is to ensure that the design of the roadways fulfills the future roadway classifications as specified in our comprehensive plan and meets all of the current criteria as required by VDOT. Presently the ordinance contains a minimum right-of-way standard and also references daily vehicle trips. We have, in our work with VDOT, have identified that those may be insufficient for those planned future conditions and we want to ensure that the subdivision ordinance again aligns with our comprehensive plan policies so that when we're reviewing applications, whether that be subdivisions or site plans, we're able to get the full width of the roadway on those plans. So again, these items are presented to you all for discussion this evening. The Planning Commission discussed these amendments on December 1st and again their only comment was about the farm use vehicles, which I explained earlier. Staff is seeking direction from the Board on the appropriateness of these amendments and whether they're ready to be moved forward for a public hearing. And I'm of course happy to answer any questions you have on them as a group or individual amendments. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Questions of Mr. Klein? Yes, ma'am. Under inoperable motor vehicles, would shipping containers fall under that category of needing screening and buffering? Not if they're not on a trailer. So if they're sitting on a trailer, they would fall under inoperable motor vehicles, but if it's just the container box, it's not a vehicle from what I understand. Okay. Because we had this discussion earlier, I recall that we had shipping container issues where they tend to get stacked in areas. And to be sure that we didn't have to go through extra steps to accommodate businesses and what have you and... Right. It would not affect what we discussed previously. Very well. Thank you. Anyone else? Questions of Mr. Klein? Supervisor Dunn. I played Fulton earlier, so. My questions are on the steepness. You have a 15 degree steepness, up to a 50 degree steepness. You're doing a 35. So for those people that are less than that, they've gone from steep to non-steep. How does that affect the... Okay. them? Second question is, those people between 35 and 50, has that affected them as well? The definition specifies that it's the land area where the slope exceeds 50% or 15%. It may have an impact on current developments that are under review depending on if and when this gets approved. What we have seen is that 15% is kind of a really low number and a lot of land on developments gets caught in that steep slope category. We don't see a lot of 50% steep slopes, but we do have those areas of the county where there are extreme slopes, particularly in the western parts of the county. In picking that 35%, the committee discussed it and kind of were trying to split the average and we went back to our public works staff and said, what does this do from E&S and other controls and parts of the ordinance? And they really said 35% is kind of just in the middle and doesn't really have a negative impact. You need a specific number. Or can you have a number from X to Y? I believe we need a specific number. There is a subsequent section of the ordinance in the natural, or sorry, in the environmental features where developments are allowed up to a 25% disturbance of steep slopes. So we need to clearly define what a steep slope is so that when they go to do the land disturbance, they can do their calculations correctly to show that they're not disturbing more than 25% of the steep slopes on a site. Are you advanced? I'm advanced. I appreciate it. I'll show you that and we'll see what other board members have to say. Thank you. Any other questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? Thank you very much, sir. How would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would make a motion that we instruct staff to move this to a public hearing. I heard the motion. Second? Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll forward the motion. Let's move forward this one to public hearing. All right. Board liaison reports, are there any? Anyone? All right. This is the portion of the meeting for citizen comments on any issue they might like to bring before the board. We have a sign-up. Bryan Smith. Aye. Welcome, Mr. Smith. As before, your name, Magisterial District, and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please, sir. Yes, sir. My name is Brian Smith. I'm with the Gainesboro Magisterial District. I am here to speak as the Senior Vice President of the Virginia Police Benevolent Association. The Virginia Police Benevolent Association is a division of the Southern States Police Benevolent Association. A not-for-profit professional organization dedicated to improving the law enforcement profession. PBA members are full-time or retired employees of the various federal, state, county, and municipal law enforcement and correctional agencies in Virginia. This professional association, funded by membership dues and citizen contributions, provides legal, legislative, disciplinary, and other representation to member officers, as well as an accidental death benefit to members' beneficiaries. The PBA prohibits members from engaging in or condoning any strike by law enforcement officers electing instead to represent members through aggressive political action. What I'm about to read to you is a press release brought to you by the Virginia Police Benevolent Association, not my personal view or any view of any employer that I am employed with. The Northern Virginia Chapter of Virginia Police Benevolent Association expresses extreme concern over the actions of Frederick County Supervisor John Graber in regard to an incident on election day. The PBA prohibits members from engaging in or condoning any strike by law enforcement officers electing instead to represent members through aggressive political action. There are some evement theater about this. You'll be left with a total crowd of people on call to MỹLLC and act on attorney and fees. The PBA someone who 전에 appears to bechester that involuntarily Offered him to testify. Whenhmm Umm When Support at this file. The officers written in August. And there was. A little video applause and representation of Shepherd that was Viklerlle,shaw. Let me join a few. You'll note in this. call the Frederick County Sheriff's Office, make any requests for any law enforcement intervention, nor was he treated unprofessionally or disrespectfully. Later, once an investigation into Supervisor Graber's actions took place, it is the understanding of the PBA that Supervisor Graber repeatedly misrepresented the actions of the deputy and attempted to have Sheriff Lenny Milholland issue discipline against the deputy without a legal basis. Quote, I am completely shocked and appalled by the actions taken by this elected official in Frederick County. This is a deliberate and unwarranted attack on law enforcement in a world where their jobs are already tough enough. End quote. By the Northern Virginia Chapter President, Mark Ramey. The PBA urgently encourages the citizens of Frederick County to join the PBA in expressing concern over Supervisor Graber's actions and also asks all citizens to join the recall effort against Supervisor Graber. Thank you. Thank you, Sheriff. Nicholas. Nicholas Santmyer. Thank you. Welcome, sir. You may need to adjust that microphone to where it's... There you go. Can I hand you some paperwork? I don't have a presentation. If it's Ms. Phelps, she'll pass it down for us. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. That's fine. I'm sending it down. All right. So, my name is Nick Santmyer. I am the property owner of 1930 Front Royal Pike. You might notice the front picture is going down Front Royal Pike from Costco is the building that's kind of run down and I'm trying to bring it back to life. give it some use again so that way it's not an eyesore to everybody. That property is currently on the dividing line between Frederick County's water and sewer lines and not. So the Shawnee District is kind of cut out of that area a little bit. And then on page three of that documentation, you'll kind of see the Frederick County water and sewer line diagram of where it's cut in, cut out. And I am requesting that we can extend that line a little bit to include that property. The sewer line and water line are already current on the property and they run through the property itself. And I'm trying to extend it to include that so I can hook in and make it a viable property again. Is that all that you have? That's it, yeah. We have a process for your ability to request that study in the planning department. Okay, I was told I didn't need to talk to you guys, but sweet. Sorry, do you want to? I'm sorry, I didn't catch the comment. No, I understood that I didn't need to talk to the board supervisors for approval on it. It goes through planning. Planning first. On its way to us and through Frederick Water for their recommendation. That's who recommended me here. It won't be quick, but we have a way to address it. Sounds like fun. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Maya Usami. Welcome. Welcome. Hello. Just pull it down. I shall. Maya Usmani. Apco Khan. Mr. Wells. Supervisor Wells. You are my person here. Let me speak to you. There is something that's happening in Middletown. It's actually a piece of property in Frederick County. And it got sold. It's 20 acres at the exit of the Middletown exit there. And so I am hearing that it wants to be annexed, that you guys want to annex. That you want to make sure that it's a piece of property. It is. If you're asking me to say that, then I'll say that it's a piece of property. So I'm going to say that it's a piece of property. That I'm going to be giving to the City of Middletown, and then the City of Middletown, and then the City of Middletown would be giving about $300,000 or even $600,000 to Middletown's Water Treatment Center. So Middletown needs a Water Treatment Center. We see all the houses that are being built. And I always think that if you don't want something in your backyard, that you need to buy that property and hold onto it. So Sheets isn't my issue, except for other things that's going to happen right there at that exit. Yesterday, I tried to come into Winchester to bring my dog into the vet. Once again, 81, standstill. So I understood some of the issues with 11 being like the alternate for 81. 100 cars, I could not even see the light. Half an hour, I turned around and said, got to bring my dog in tomorrow, or else use Front Royal and 522. It really is freaking me out that you can take a partial of land of 20 acres and say, you know what? I don't want this to be my problem, so I'm going to give it to the town of Middletown and have them take care of their water treatment from that. I do not believe that it's right to take 20 acres that's been in Frederick County. If Sheets is willing to give $600,000, how about they give it to Frederick County? We use it for our schools. Thank you. Thank you very much. Oh, if I have another moment, growing up, I was a YMCA kid. I went every single year. Those swimming lessons from tadpole up to I think I made shark or whatever the next one was, I don't think I ever made it to whale. Those lessons, y'all remember that, right? Those lessons were crucial for me as an adult to give my kids swimming lessons. I always made sure they did. One time down in Florida, I was actually able to pull my child out of a riptide. You never pull. You have to do it. I have a healthy respect for water. I think anything that would help anybody to learn how to swim and bring money into the county because of hockey, winter sports, things like that. Think about that. Whatever we need to do to bring an aquatic center here, let's please do it. We're way past the point of needing that. We don't have the facilities to bring all these different people in here. Almost 100,000 people in Frederick County. Let's get an aquatic center. Let's work towards that. Thank you so much, everyone. Thank you. Gail Ferrer. I'm sorry. Good evening. Thank you for allowing me to speak tonight. My name is Gail Ferrer, and I'm from the Shawnee District. I would like to iterate my support for Sean Gray. I'll be very abrupt about this record at the controversy party tonight on Mr. Glaibor. Look, Mr. Glaibor. He's not looking. He's человек. He's a человек. He has made decisions made that to really save my life. Now, I would be right if I didn't ask you about your brother. Yes, sir. Choose well. He's valued well. Veryна gun. Okay. The bill says to all of you that should vote today. During this discussion, when the little boy and your sister are crossing over theşota, Josh, finally. sample ballots. Note that the sample ballots cannot be white and cannot use anything less than 24 font. He was merely taking pictures to get a photo of the ballots, which ruffled the Democrat Party, who then called Deputy Kennedy to come to the scene. Upon his arrival, Deputy Kennedy repeatedly informed Mr. Graber, too, that even though not illegal, refrain from taking pictures when asked not to. He did this to diffuse the situation, explained this to Mr. Graber, and apologized for his repetitive rhetoric. Mr. Graber then accepted the apology, and Deputy Kennedy asked for the case to be closed. To make this a mountain out of an anthill is ludicrous. Mr. Graber has always had the courage to bring up important topics for the Board of Supervisors to address, such as budget transparency, elimination of the deep equity program. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I like a lot of people in Frederick County wake up and check the Frederick County roads and traffic page frequently. And Frederick County, it's a wonderful resource and it's run by a very professional member of our very professional Sheriff's Department. In the past several years, our Sheriff's Department has acted well within and well exceeding some of their responsibilities being good stewards of our community. And so when someone is advised by a Sheriff's Deputy once to do something, not that they have to, but just suggested, probably it's a good thing to do it. Second time, you probably should have heard it. The third time, yes, but once they've gotten to the fourth time, you've probably exceeded expectations. And the events on Election Day at the Cincinnati Road School are shocking to say the least. And I'd like to bring. I'd like to bring up Article two of the General Code of Conduct that the Board of Supervisors will sign off on every January with the new year, specifically Section two, section subsection one, general conduct. Right on the first line, each board member will treat fellow board members, citizens, staff, employees and committee members with respect. Considering the behavior of a member of this board that day, I don't think that that respect was paid. Now, if that if the issue had just been on. That day, that probably would have been the end with Deputy Kennedy's report. However, it didn't end. And as the Winchester Stars reported, someone was called an asshole. Someone was called a knucklehead. As a sitting member of this board, and that is unacceptable, that is completely unacceptable behavior. And then to threaten to throw a member of our deputy of our Sheriff's Department under the bus. Completely unacceptable for someone who affects their budget. Do the right thing, guys. Thank you very much. Kim Fletcher. Welcome, Ms. Fletcher. Just pull it down to where it's comfortable. I was hoping I'd go after Mia, so I wouldn't have to do that. Thank you. And Supervisor, Board of Directors. Thank you for that. I'm so grateful for this opportunity to address the board on an issue that's very near to my heart. I wasn't able to attend last month's meeting, but I wanted to register my opposition. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm from the Peckin District. I wanted to register my opposition against the Middletown annexation of the property in and around the exit 302 area east of 81. I live, obviously, in that area. But would remain a Frederick County resident after any annexation would be approved. And I wanted to echo my neighbor, Robert Clark's concern that he expressed at last month's meeting around traffic, noise, air quality, the preservation of our historic and rural culture. I echo all of those concerns, but I particularly want to stress the concern about the elimination and the muting of our voices. Frederick County. The area we live in is a place of". Amigos from downtown central Florida. Foe Removal of Buildings and Mot GE Foundation partners us grup also Us unfold Auditorium Board of Directors Sus bikers My уп Indian Ba D иде Boom 2007 articulation the strategy that he proposed. But I don't think a Sheets gas station is really in line with that strategy. So I just wanted to indicate that. And then lastly, I would just ask you that as representatives of Frederick County residents, that like myself and my neighbors, that you challenge the planning commission to exit any conversations with Middletown around this issue with a clear and articulate expression of what is in this for Frederick County and its residents. Thank you very much. Thank you. Robbie Dalton. Welcome, sir. Raise it up to where it's comfortable, sir. Thank you. Robbie Dalton, Shawnee District. There's a lot that I could speak of with one regards to Mr. Graver's conduct on and after election day. Let me interrupt you for just one moment. You inadvertently turned your mic off. There we go. Good, much better. Yes. There's a lot I could speak on with regards to Mr. Graver's conduct on and after election day. However, one thing stuck out in particular. The quote, I would like to throw that deputy under the bus, as far under the bus as I have to. Again, I will throw that deputy as far under the bus as I have to. Mr. Graver, I would love to know exactly what you meant by that statement. Being that you're such a fan of transparency, I figure there must be an explanation. There wasn't, or it was deleted. Was the goal to get Deputy Kennedy in trouble? Get him suspended? Take away his livelihood? Looking at the bigger picture, will you continue this vendetta and attempt to take away money and resources from law enforcement who are just trying to do their jobs? Clearly there is a malicious plan to somehow damage the reputation of Deputy Kennedy and or Frederick County law enforcement. For what reason? Because he respectfully asked you to act civil and stop your childish behavior. With a lot of these issues going along party lines, I did want to throw in there that I am a registered Republican, so it's not a liberal conservative issue. Police across the country have gone through a lot over the last several years. Many people and the media have portrayed them as the enemy, while their sole purpose is to protect and serve their communities. I was shocked, saddened, and appalled to find out, oh, I'm not going to be a Republican. I was shocked, saddened, and appalled to find out a Republican. heading, also think, a leader in our county was trying to do the same and portray them as the enemy." Speaking of leadership, to my knowledge, no other members of this board have spoken out to condemn Mr. Graver's actions. You're silence is deafening. There is no place on this board for individuals pushing their own agenda and willing to throw good people under the bus to accomplish their own personal goals. The deputy's actions were respectful, professional, and thank goodness were documented by a body camera so that any attempts to throw him under the bus, will be unsuccessful. To the Frederick County Police Department, thank you. Thank you. Bob Clark. Bob Clark. Welcome, sir. Welcome, thank you. Bob Clark, the Peckin District, I've been here before. It's tough to follow a retired police chief. I absolutely support the Sheriff's Department. That's my personal statement for that. So I'm here today again with the Middletown annexation. Just wanna read something, just for food for thought. Middletown's annexation is a question of interest, the interest of a few, a handful of Middletown elected officials seeking monetary gain over the interest of the many. We, the citizens of Frederick County, who would suffer the most under Middletown's annexation, who would realize no monetary gain, and would only seek to protect, and who only seek to protect and defend our political voice and the aesthetic environmental value, rural culture, and quality of life that we enjoyed for years, we've enjoyed for years. The Exit 302 Smart Development Coalition supports this board. Their thoughtful, disciplined, and measured approach, to Frederick County land development, and we applaud the Frederick County Board of Supervisors for all decisions made protecting the natural, rural character and quality of life of Frederick County. The value and importance of protecting this quality of life versus development interest cannot be overstated. The importance has even been recognized by the US Supreme Court. In Sierra Club versus Morton in 1972, the Court recognized, aesthetic and environmental well being, like economic well being, are important ingredients of the quality of life in our society. That the fact that particular environmental interests are shared by the many rather than the few does not make them less deserving of legal protection through the judicial process. Again, the Exit 302 Smart Development Coalition supports the smart development of all. all lands throughout Frederick County. We support a balanced approach to land use that not only protects the aesthetic appeal of our rural landscape but also protects our rural culture, history, and lifestyle. As citizens of Frederick County, we cannot abdicate or underappreciate on any level our right to determine our combined destiny by working hand-in-hand with you, our board, our elected officials that work for us, representing us on the matters that impact us directly and affect us the most. And we look forward to working with you, our elected representatives, now and in the future. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list of signups. Thank you, ma'am. Is there anyone else who would like to bring anything? If you'd come forward, sir, same deal. Name, Magisterial District, limit your comments to three minutes. or less, please. There's a timer there for you. The Theologist, Stonewall District. Yes, sir. I was not planning to speak this evening, but so I didn't sign up. But I have a question that perhaps you or, with your permission, Mr. Williams could answer. Is there a deadline for applying for a committee opening? I don't believe that there's ever a deadline on those. We accept them, keep them on file until they're needed, and then review them. OK, so I did apply for an opening that you all voted this evening. And while I understand that the supervisor it's the supervisor's prerogative to recommend somebody, I believe at least that should have been, the name should have been considered, so the board knows when they vote what they vote. Yeah. it's a procedural matter, has nothing to do with the, you know, our supervisor or with the gentleman that was voted in. I just don't believe the proper procedure was followed. So, and perhaps Mr. Williams can advise us on this. We will not do that. Okay. Mr. Chairman? Yes. I can comment that that application was received after the agenda deadline for this meeting. That is correct and that is why I asked whether there is a deadline. For the agenda there is a deadline, but we accept applications all the time and so there are, they will be added when there's an opening, like for the next opening. So if an opening is voted today and an application comes in before the vote, if it's not in before the agenda then that means it will not... The board will not see it because it's not made the agenda packet. Understood. I may be wrong, but I believe I've seen in the past last-minute things proposed even though they were not in an agenda, but I may be wrong. But for the record, I have submitted an application for when the next opening comes up. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Yes, ma'am. Pull it down there. Sure. Hello, members of the board. I wasn't sure if I was going to speak or not, but I wanted to come up here and just support Mr. Graber. I was aware of what had happened and I watched the body cam footage. What I saw was an officer kind of reaching, in my opinion. He should have been based on law and left his opinion out of it. Period. Point blank is Graber did absolutely nothing wrong. He did not break the law. He was fully allowed to take the photos that he did and he was doing it in order to keep election integrity. I would have been frustrated and wanted to complain to the sheriff myself if I were in his position. I think that this was extremely blown out of proportion. Sean, I don't think that you should be reprimanded in any way and I fully support you and I don't think you did anything wrong. Thank you. A Magisterial. Oh, I'm sorry. Christy Scarborough, Stonewall District. Thank you, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Excuse me for wearing the coat. It's extremely cold in here. I cannot feel my feet. I've been in the Thank you. Excuse me for wearing the coat. It's extremely cold in here. I cannot feel my feet. I've been in the Injury. Thank you, ma'am. I cannot feel my nose. Music. It's a healthy circulation of fresh air. My name is Priscilla Bellido, And I am In the Stonewall District. Um, I wasn't intending on speaking tonight, But nothing has struck a chord with me regarding the Graber situation. I Just can't forget to thank any of you who have possibly felt you. Thank you so much for having me on your front porch coverage. I don't have a dog The fight, he does not represent my district. We are not friends. I don't know him. However, the question that you may be asking myself is And that's a rude to my掌 On October 3rd of last year, I filed a complaint with the Frederick County Sheriff's Department. I have two small children, and we live in a wonderful cul-de-sac, and about 15 children altogether live there. All of these children were outside playing, including my own, riding their bikes and such, and a gentleman, and I use that term extraordinarily loosely, decided to come into our cul-de-sac and take photos of said children, my children. I am a social worker of 23 plus years. That's a big, huge red flag in today's world with all of the social media and sex trafficking and all of the other terrible things that go on. A complaint was filed with the Frederick County Sheriff's Department, and a sheriff's deputy came out that I would like to file a complaint with. I'm going to file a complaint with the Frederick County Sheriff's Department. I'm going to file a complaint with the Frederick County Sheriff's Department. I would like to say was extraordinarily respectful, all around really great guy, no complaints with him and how he handled the situation whatsoever. I proceeded to tell that sheriff's deputy what was going on. Pictures of these children were being taken. The sheriff's deputy then told me that the gentleman taking the photos was on the street, was on the sidewalk, it's public space, he could do that. But what I did was I told him, I said, I'm going to file a complaint with the Frederick County Sheriff's Department. I proceeded to tell that sheriff's deputy what was going on. Pictures of these children were being taken. But what I did was I told him, I said, I'm going to file a complaint with the Frederick County Sheriff's Department. No, no, no, wait a minute, wait a minute. He's taking pictures of children. He's taking pictures of my children. Sorry, Ms. Bolito, he has every right to do that. Okay, what are you going to do about this? We're not going to do anything about it. He has every right to do that. There's nothing we can do. I would like to say I issued a threat to that gentleman, but it was not a threat, it was an assertion of my intended actions. I told that sheriff's deputy that if he continued to do so, I was going to whoop his ass. And I was... Did serious about it. The sheriff's deputy still did absolutely nothing but tell me he's permitted to take those photos. It's public space. There's nothing we can do. Have a great day, essentially. So this struck a nerve with me because I'm a nobody. I'm a mother. I'm nobody. I'm not a political figure. I'm not an executive director of an educational foundation or anything of the sort in this community. However, I feel that there's an inequity between my situation and the situation that Mr. Graber and Ms. Williams, I believe the Winchester star said. What's the difference? Because I'm not a political figure, because I'm not the executive director of a foundation, there were children involved in my situation. Ma'am, you'll need to conclude. So that's why it struck a nerve with me. I'd just like to bring that to you. Thank you for your attention. Again, the sheriff's deputy that responded to my situation was entirely respectful and no issues. Thank you. Anyone else? Welcome. Welcome. Hi, my name is Molly Brannon. I'm from the Back Creek District. I fully support Sean representing me and voting for me. He's a conservative. He's a conservative. He's the voice that we need on the panel. From the board, from the meetings I come to, he's extremely conservative, and I think it's nice to consider other points of view. I understand he lost his cool in a phone call with the sheriff. I've talked to him. He knows I think it was a mistake. He regrets some things that he said. But in this political climate, nightly on the news, I see politicians misbehaving. Giving fingers, using obscene language, threatening people, and this has blown completely out of proportion. Now, what wasn't addressed in his situation, and I think he got frustrated, is white sample ballots were being handed out. That is illegal. I do not—yes, they were. They were not. This is not a debate. And I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I don't know if it was inadvertent. I don't know if it was ran out so photocopies were made. But that cannot happen. So I fully support him, and I know he regrets some language. And we need to move on and not condemn someone for doing that. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Huh. Okay, great. It's all good? Is there anyone else? Who wants to speak? Again, we worry aboutEMDITARFEETそして新一些门口 üz Jen, This is abayneTV的רך THEY HAS DUNKED THE throwing THE THROWING QU� 어 μέ式 MR. GRABER SAYS THERE WERE WHITE SAMPLE Family 201� EZBHAVE N. D. PAMELA CL ما MY WORD CORI SCARCE T THEY CARED HELLO, I'VE DONE IT SINCE I'VE DROPPED A PORTABLE just like with the deep equity class and the roster of students, we've never seen this piece of paper that he claims that he had in the video. It's time to pony up, Sean. Your cards are being called. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, can you hear me okay? Yes, thank you. My name is Jody Yagey and I'm in the Redbud District. I just would like to make the board, I would like to take a moment to read the roles and responsibilities of the Board of Supervisors. I believe, I have a feeling you probably signed on to something. You were signing or committed to something when you were elected to the board. And part C in section 2.2 says, board members' interactions with staff should not be unreasonably, should not unreasonably interfere with employee productivity. Board members should refrain from making requests that may unreasonably affect workload. Members of the board will not give direction to any county staff member. Any request for action which is not part of the routine or customer or work of a committee or for routine or customary assistance will be submitted to the county administrator for consideration by the board if necessary. It is my belief that Mr. Graber acted, utilized his role as a Board of Supervisor to inadvertently work with staff through means that are not set out in the roles and responsibilities as a Board of Supervisor. I would highly encourage the rest of the Board of Supervisors to remind Mr. Graber, of how it is important to act in accordance with what was signed off on. And I would ask that he step down from all committees and potentially resign from the Board. You need to follow rules just like everybody else. Thank you. Anyone else? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment portion. Board of Supervisors comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. As my last community event before ending my short time on the Board of Supervisors, I had the honor and privilege to have attended the graduation ceremony of Frederick County Fire and Rescue's Recruit Class of 2021 last Friday. I was able to attend the ceremony at the Roundhill Event Center. The 11 members of the class were Chief Maja Schack's first recruit class, and what a stellar class it is after six months of arduous training. We count these wonderful young adults as among our community heroes, who we count on to help us in times of desperation, and great need. And we admire them for their courage and commitment to others. Similarly, I could tell that these young people have admiration for elected officials, and an expectation that we will have the courage to do the right thing in difficult situations. At our last meeting, I met with the President of the United States, and I was able to share with him the great joy of being a member of the community. I was able to share with him the great joy of being a member of the community. At our last meeting, I mentioned that what took place in the campaigns of Shawnee District Supervisor and School Board Representative that involved Josh Ludwig, Miles Adkins, and Sean Graber need to be kept from ever happening again in Frederick County and anywhere else in our Commonwealth. The sheets of the Constitution are the only ones that are still in place. The sheets that they called sample Republican ballots and were distributed to all Shawnee District voters at the four voting places falsely named Miles Adkins as the endorsed Republican candidate. And regrettably, these were not the sample ballots that had been authorized and paid for by the Frederick County Republican Committee. Those sample ballots had been discarded and replaced by sample ballots paid for by candidate for the Board of Supervisors, Josh Ludwig. Mr. Chairman, I have not determined the best way for having this fraudulent practice ended, whether it be by action of the Republican Central Committee or by the Virginia General Assembly. And therefore, I have not made a proposal to the Board this evening, as I had suggested I would. And therefore, I have not made a proposal to the Board this evening, as I had suggested I would. And therefore, I have not made a proposal to the Board this evening, as I had suggested I would. But you can be assured that I will be pursuing an end to this practice for the sake of honoring our community heroes, such as the recruits who just graduated, and our national heroes in our armed forces, but also the average citizens of this county, who need to have absolute trust in the fairness of our elections process. Just as 11 recruits took an oath last Friday to maintain and honor the highest principles of their profession, we take the same kind of oath as elected officials to the people of Frederick County. And I can only hope that my successor on the Board of Supervisors, Mr. Ludwig, and Mr. Adkins, who will represent the Shawnee District on the school board, will demonstrate much greater integrity as elected officials, than they did as candidates. But ending on a positive note, and in keeping with my comments about our wonderful firefighters, I believe that we can all be grateful for the extraordinary employees of Frederick County, who serve the people of the county with such distinction. I especially want to recognize and thank Clerk for the Board of Supervisors, and Ms. Ann Phillips, whose caring, efficient, diligent, conscientious ways have been a blessing to me, and I know, to each of us supervisors. I end my slightly more than a year on the Board of Supervisors hopeful about the changes in leadership that have taken place in Richmond, but also hopeful that we have an extraordinary leader in Michael Bolhoffer, our new County Administrator, who each of us on this Board can be proud to have had a role in selecting. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman, if I may. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to read a little bit out of a prepared statement. It goes like this. It has always been my long-held belief that the Constitution and the freedoms contained therein should always be first and forefront of all that I do. In this vein of thought, voting and the integrity of every vote to me is a sacred constitutional right, and that right should be guarded and held in the highest regard. It is the men and women elected through this constitutional process that form the laws that govern our American way of life. On Election Day, I received a verbal apology from Deputy Kennedy, which is documented on his police report, and of which I thank him for it and I accept it. The following day, on November 3, in frustration over lack of what I perceived to be investigative efforts, I had a conversation directly with Sheriff Milholland, in which I referenced Deputy Kennedy's actions in a non-flattering light, and for that, I must apologize to Deputy Kennedy and kindly ask that he also accept my apology, as I have accepted his. I must also reaffirm that I am grateful to him for his professionalism, and I must also reaffirm my appreciation to Sergeant Smith, which I did that day, my appreciation for his professionalism, and if you go look at the body camera, you will see that, the day that this event occurred, and I indicated as such to him. While I know that members of the press have written pieces on this issue, I would note that I was not contacted for some of the articles that have been written, and I do not condone or necessarily agree with anything that do not reflect my comments that were presented. I will not be issuing additional comments regarding this matter, nor revealing evidence, until all the evidence can be compiled, verified, and sorted through, as it would be inappropriate for me to comment on those items, while additional information is continuing to be received. I want to thank all the folks who have reached out to me, and shared with me the things that they witnessed on Election Day, and for all those folks who have written to me, and for all those folks who have written a statement or made comments, I appreciate their efforts. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? I do. Yes, sir. Supervisor Wells. Yes, sir. This is Supervisor Stigmeier's last meeting, and I'd just like to personally say to Dave, I've enjoyed the time with you. Thank you for a commitment to Frederick County that you made, the time you spent. It doesn't go unnoticed, and I just much appreciate it. I'm sure it was appreciated by the people in your precinct, and the people that you represented. So, again, thank you for your service to Frederick County. A good friend also, but I just really appreciate all you've done, and I wish you the best. And on that note, I'd also like to say, Merry Christmas! Yes, sir. Thank you. Anyone else? We would. We would like to wish everyone a truly blessed holiday season and a Merry Christmas. Please be safe, and we look forward to the new year. Thank you all. Vice Chairman Wells. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. Second. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. We'll stand adjourned. We thank everyone for their time and their contributions. And we ask all of our representatives to願ing to join us this morning for the session to learn more about future hosting activities and employee orientation at Federation's Walin Street aha monitor center by población connection center. Thank you.
