Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2025-03-19
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=275
========================================================================

you you you you you you you Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I call the March 19, 2025 meeting of the Planning Commission together to order. I would ask Mr. Thomas if he would please lead us in a pledge of allegiance. Please stand and join us. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. The next order of business is adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion? So moved. Do I have a motion? Is there a second? Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. And we have an agenda. Item four is meeting minutes. We have meeting minutes from January 15th meeting. These were distributed out with the agenda. Are there any comments, corrections, deletions? Hearing none, I'd be glad to accept a motion for approval. Move for approval. Any second? Second. Any discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. We also have meeting minutes from February 19th meeting. Any corrections, deletions, or other additions to these? Hearing none, I'd be glad to accept a motion for approval. Move. Second. A motion and a second. Any discussion? All in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, likewise. And the meeting minutes are approved. That leads us to committee reports. Are there any committee reports? Any discussion? Any discussion? Okay. I have one. From the HRAB, Historic Resource Advisory Board. Met on February 21st. Elected a chairman and the vice chairman, Lucas Cook, was elected as chairman. Steve Cantree was elected as the vice chairman. The first topic was the Valclo Springs Conditional Use Permit, which is on our agenda for this evening. There was a lot of discussion about remodeling and how to do that in a manner that was appropriate. The first item was appropriate for historic facilities. The commission also took up the 522 Plaza rezoning application, which is out in Sunnyside, and had discussion about that and some of the historic aspects there. And the last item was a historic plaque program for which the county has received $16,000 some time ago. And the question was, how do we utilize that money, which needs to be used? Fairly quickly. And there were discussions about different ways to do that. We also have a representative with us this evening from Winchester Planning Commission. Mr. Dick. Good evening, sir. Good evening. Just a brief report from us. So we haven't had a very heavy agenda for the last month or so. We are working on a humanitarian shelter ordinance amendment to the zoning ordinance. And that is firming up the regulations and the locations for those facilities. Very good. Thank you, sir. And Mr. Liero. It's always good to see you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a quick report on the Board of Supervisors' actions of last Wednesday, March the 12th. We had three items of planning, Commission business. First one was rezoning number 1124 of Route 7 self-storage in the Red Bud Magisterial District. That was delayed for two weeks. That will be continued on to the agenda on March the 26th. Second item was rezoning 01-25 NEF property commercial in the Opecan Magisterial District. That was approved 7 to 0. Last item was the ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code Chapter 165 zoning additions and revisions to define and regulate data centers. Action was postponed to 3. The new version will be advertised for public hearing on April the 9th, 2025. And that is all I have, Mr. Chair. Thank you very much, sir. That leads us to item 6, which is citizen comments. This is a time for anybody who'd like to address the Planning Commission to do so for items that are not on the public hearing agenda this evening. So if you have something you would like to speak to the Planning Commission about that is not going to be brought up later. This would be the time to do so. I ask that you please state your name in Magisterial District and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anybody like to address the Planning Commission? Seeing none, I will close the citizen comments. And we will move into our public hearings. First public hearing this evening, item 7A, conditional use permit 01-25 for Volcluse Holdings. Ms. Pellequin, good evening, ma'am. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This conditional use permit for Volcluse Holdings is for a 44-acre property that's zoned RA rural areas in the Bat Creek Magisterial District. The conditional use permit is for a special event facility, two public restaurants, and a campground slash resort. And this may look familiar to you all because there was a CUP approved last year in January, and this application seeks to expand the scope of what was in that conditional use permit. This countywide map shows the property. It's indicated by the red box. It's south of the town of Stephen City and roughly three-quarters of a mile west of Route 11 along Volcluse Road. More zoomed in map here, the property itself is outlined in purple. The entrance is south off of Volcluse Road onto Volcluse Spring Lane. The applicant proposed to be a public housing property. Ms. Pellequin, good evening. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The applicant proposes a special event facility with a maximum of 40 special events per year and a maximum of 160 guests per event and proposes amplified outdoor music and outdoor events to conclude by 11 p.m. They propose two restaurants open to the public in existing structures. They propose adding 12 new cabins for a campground and utilizing some existing structures and guest rooms. They propose adding approximately 124 new parking spaces to serve the whole development, and they anticipate around 45 employees being needed on rotating shifts. Other uses such as the spa and art gallery are considered to be accessory uses. This is the schematic design for the project. For your orientation, Volcluse Road would be on the left. The applicant plans to keep all of the historic structures on the property, add some additions onto four structures, add the parking and some new structures spread out amongst the property. I would note that there are some additional regulations in the zoning ordinance for special event facilities and campgrounds, and those would all have to be addressed in more detail at the site plan stage. Thank you. The comprehensive plan designates this property to remain rural. The proposed use is generally in conformance with the comprehensive plan. For example, in the rural areas chapter, the plan includes a goal to promote the county's preferred uses for the rural areas, including supportive uses for agriculture, historic preservation, tourism, and strengthening land conservation initiatives. Furthermore, the business development chapter includes a goal to ensure that business owners are supported and supported by the local government. The improvised design framework is also included in the planning. To make this possible for more supportive uses, Vice President Haynes will AHC will vote in blue in favor of a 5- 2% increase to style for future use, providing more opportunities for the region'sوس pro continue to serve Alabama's rural communities, a Mazatok but another commercial student. Siobhan?意o? the proposed impacts. So tonight staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission. That concludes my presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions and the applicant and their representative Marissa with Greenway Engineering are also available to answer questions and they would like to say a few words as well. Thank you. Any questions for Ms. Pellekman? I'll start to my right. Mr. Thomas. Ms. Pellekman, would you highlight what the current CUP allows them to do compared to what they're asking in this new CUP? Sure. The CUP that was approved in January of 2024 enabled one restaurant to be open to the public. They were not proposing at that time building any new structures like no cabins or anything of that sort and they had asked for 12 to 15 special events per day. So I think that's a good point. I think that's a good way to put it and looking at this project, we are now blood running glass per year capt at 130 guests per event and that's pretty much it. Okay. I just don't recall, did we get any comments from VDOT at that point about the traffic from the special events center? We did. So at that point, VDOT simply said bye, mother mother no. No thank you. We don't have any support now. VDOT stated that the proposed conditional use permit appears to have little measurable impact on Valcuse Road and they were more focused on the entrance and stated the entrance was in good conditions but there were some trees to the west that were blocking the visibility and sight distance and the applicants were agreeable to remove the trees and then once the trees were removed the entrance would meet VDOT entrance requirements and that's all they stated at the previous conditional use permit. Okay, so make sure I understand the differences here. That conditional use permit was for a special events center that would allow up maxed out at 130 people. This maxes out at 150 people. Is that right? 160. 160. Yes. And adds a second restaurant. Yes. Okay. I guess I'm. I guess I'm curious why VDOT didn't make any comments at 130 people but make a lot of comments about 160, one restaurant versus two restaurants. Did we get any other comments from VDOT? I know there's not a traffic study or anything like that but. They didn't provide any further detail as to the reasons that you're articulating. I know in our conversations with them. One of the key differences that they noted between the previous application and this is the increase in the daily traffic to and from the site, namely the second restaurant and particularly the implications of having box truck deliveries for both restaurants as well as general operations occurring on a daily basis whereas the special event facilities are on a weekend basis or otherwise. Particularly, I think they were more concerned about the fact that they were not able to deliver the food to the restaurant. I think that's a big difference. Okay. Okay. So the second one, the first one is the ability to continue to maintain what is a dirt road at this time. They said they're grading it about four times a year currently in order to keep it up and they often get complaints about it as is. Yeah. Just seems to be a disconnect to me because I'm sure the owners would love to have that second restaurant generate a significant amount of traffic but unless it's a 200 person restaurant, I can't see why VDOT made no comments before but now are making comments. It just. It's just a point and it's an unfortunate gray area to be below the threshold of a traffic impact analysis where you can really look in detail at these items and they're generally gauging when it is appropriate to express concerns and when to just allow it to happen. So yeah, I can't speak any further to their thinking on providing the comment. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions for Ms. Pell? Yes, sir. Thank you. This might be an applicant question. I don't know if you have any questions. I'm just curious. I don't know. But how many new buildings were there and what were the uses of the new buildings proposed? The new buildings would just include the 12 cabins that are proposed as part of this and then there are proposing four building expansions or additions on some of the existing structures. Okay. But they can certainly confirm that and. Okay. So the number of events I think stuck out to me as well. I think it was, what was the original one was. Originally it said 12 to 15 events per year and this is 40. Okay. Requesting up to 40 per year. Okay. All right. Thank you. Okay. To my left. Any questions? In the previous CUP, how many employees did they request? I don't know that they requested a specific amount of employees. But. There was no condition. It wasn't conditioned that they can only have a certain amount of employees. So this is just the extra detail that they've added into their application when thinking about how this would function moving forward. Thank you. Any other questions? Can you give us some definition of the camping? Is the camping, do the cabins represent the camping? Are folks going to be pitching tents out there or what's that all about? No, there wouldn't be tent camping, but our definition of a campground is a lot or parcel upon which two or more campsites are located and it includes cabins in that. So campground for the cabins was what the intent was there. There's not going to be RV parking or tent camping on the property. We just have to call it that per the ordinance because it would be subject to the additional regulations for the specific uses that regulate the density of cab, number of cabins per acre. Okay. So there's 12 cabins and those are considered campsites based on our ordinance is what a. Yeah. Based on the ordinance, it would have to follow the additional regulations for a campground. Okay. Thank you very much. Yeah. Thank you. Would the applicant like to add anything? Sir, if you can please keep your comments to five minutes. Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, members of the commission. As you all know, my name is Jan. I'm a chef that likes to cook. And when we applied for the first COP, we didn't own the property yet. We just wanted to make sure that it was a financial good decision to be able to pay this investment back. So we are working on the property since the last year. We own the property. We've been pruning trees and we've been working with nature on making this property a very successful property. And we're very happy to have the opportunity to do that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And we will continue to do that. Thank you. And we now want to move to the next medium which is Лю cries. Remove this thing and there's a... Very interesting, very interesting platform. Inside this single window. So you would be behind each corner probably 20 facility to feature. And energy efficient. I thank you very much for your comments. the neighborhood to come and have a nice burger with some fries and a good beer. So we would add an orangerie or a greenhouse behind the house for that restaurant because the facility isn't big enough, but it would only hold 30 guests, basically. And, yeah, basically the add-on for the manor house is we keep the manor house totally intact. We work with a great architect firm as well that is making a more modern part that will be sitting next to the manor house with the same roofline, everything just old against more modern. That was what the historical department wanted as well. That was their advice, not to copy old, but actually put something nice there. And, yeah, I mean, the property, we still have our vegetable gardens. We will do an acre of vegetable gardens. We had a company that worked with us on redoing the meadow and bringing Virginia native grasses and wildflowers back on a few acres. And the event venue, I'm a chef. You know, my main thing is pleasing people and taking care of good people. That's my mission for the last 43 years. The event venue is more we are happy with what we have, but over time, you know, to financially, you know, pay all this back, we're there for the people. We're there for the community. And we will ask for some increase in numbers there. And I think we had very good comments. Our neighbors are here, too, and we are working with them. And so I think that's who I am and what I do. I am happy I go to Valerie Hill Winery all the time. I'm a part of the local community. I'm starting to. I have a lot of work with the meetings and stuff, but I'm happy. Parking lot list of property ideas. I came here to其實 help people. Sorry. I just noticed that there's not a real camper of a Clues. What's not a real campground. I don't know why they gave you that work. But basically, we want to add on some nice suites on property too. We don't want to be a big company. We want to stay small business, but just adding a few a Qu place. That would add on to we have 44 acres. A few will look over the meadow that we created. Thank you very much. Thank you. Can we ask him some questions? Can we ask him some questions? Oh, of the applicant? Yeah. Can we ask you some questions? Sure. Sure. How many people could you serve in both dining rooms? So the smaller restaurant is generally 30 people. We have some outdoor too, but it's either everybody's outside or it's cold and it's inside. And then the manor house, the fine dining, we can maximum seat 64 people. But I have been in this industry for 25 years. Mondays and Tuesdays, I have a few tables. I mean, so it's still very, very unique and it's small spaces, it's small rooms. It's not one big property, but yeah. So you plan on being open seven days a week or are you gonna be closed? So it's important for me as a hotel owner that the people on property can stay on property to eat, but I would close the manor house restaurant for two days, Mondays and Tuesdays, and then the Chumlee restaurant on Wednesdays. So they are not gonna be open every day, basically. When you're with the restaurant you have now, are you filled every day or? We're not open yet. You're not open yet. Yeah. We're not open. And I think for me, it's the price point of the restaurant. Like I'm a fine dining restaurant person, but I worked in many other hotels like this and we are there for the community too. And I wanna be there for the community. I wanna open up the property for those guests too that come and eat a burger. So that's the reason I think more approachable for our local community as well as, you're done with work and you wanna come and have a drink or something like that. Yeah. The questions I'm asking, I'm just trying to get a sense of the amount of traffic that will be coming back. The special events, you wanna go from 15 to 40. What would you be having as special events? Well, that's I think one of the reasons too, right? Especially event could be 20 or 40 people. It doesn't mean that these events are all 160 people. So I come from a place in Middleburg that we do events. And if we have 20, or 25 larger events, it's a good year. But then I don't know, consider what an event is. So I wanted to make sure that we could have a corporate retreat with a meeting room as an event too, or a family that have a funeral with 20 people, that's considered an event as well. So that's kind of why I tried to add. I was a little worried that if we applied for 16 only, that we would basically, that's all we do. I don't know that it's the number of special events that evidently would concern VDOT other than the size of the special event. Well, that's the thing. We had meetings with VDOT as well. And I'm here to open. I'm here, it's still gonna take as considered amount of time for opening because we have to renovate and stuff. But yeah, I don't know. It's something that came, it's something that came up last minute too. And we are here now and I am still love to do what we plan to do because I think for the community too, it's a beautiful property. We had so much outreach as well for the historical value of the property and people wanna come and see. And we had people reaching out for jobs. So I am very excited to do this, but I need your permit, permission to do it. So I'm gonna go ahead and close the meeting. And I'll see you guys in a minute. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes, sir. Yeah, Justin. Yeah. Hello, thanks for coming this evening. Of course. About the special events, just if you could clarify where on property they would probably be, because it's a huge property and depending on where those events are, they're closer to the neighbors or not closer to the neighbors. And then the 11 o'clock thing, would these be outside inside? Because- So we had an event barn, on the 11th, on our schedule, but that is for, you know, in the future. Where I worked before we had tended events, but we are hard cut. Like if there's a musicians playing or not, it's a hard stop at 11. And I think the neighbors, I mean the event venue itself, I don't know if I have the map, but it will be more in the middle. It's surrounded with trees. It's a little bit in a valley too. I mean, you have some cows that are against it, but all the rest of the size, the other side of the property is the 44 acres. And it's in the more to the front of the, it's like where the meadow is going. So it's surrounded with a lot of trees and stuff like that. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Whitaker, can you turn your mic on there? You got it. Thank you, John. And good evening. This is Mr. Whitaker's first meeting and welcome to the planet. Well, thank you. Thank you very much. The gravel road, would that have any effect on your outdoor dining? I don't think so personally. I, you know, I, a lot of our guests will be our community. And I mean, for the weddings too, like where I come from, we have limousine buses basically that bringing our guests and not having 80 people coming in. So that could be something like when we do a buyout event that basically when the wedding comes in, they have all the rooms on our property. That could be, you know, that's something that we usually work with a limousine service that they pick the guest in George Washington Hotel that stay. They usually find two or three neighboring hotels in the area that they have all the other guests staying. If it's a, you know, a destination wedding, if it's a local wedding, that's a destination wedding. But if it's a local wedding, that's a destination wedding. So that's something that we usually work with. Okay. So that's a different story, but it's, in my opinion, it's still considered smaller space basically. Okay. Questions? Mr. McKay. Yeah. So if you were to have a larger event, would the rest of the operation still be open? No. And I think that's where VDOT has, like when we put the numbers together, when an event is happening, not all the other things will happen. Like the restaurants will, I think the restaurants will be part of the event. It's not going to be 160 people plus 50 people restaurant plus 30 people in the Chumley. But yeah, that's basically what I felt a little misunderstood there. That we, the reason why we choose for this area too is because I want to have a relaxed atmosphere for our guests. I want to have a rural area for the community. I want to have a vegetable garden with mentorship. I work with a great farmer that is helping me for the local community too. And I think the impact that we have on the property is more protecting it, but we have to pay the bills and we have to make money too. So it is a big investment for my partners and we're all more local people. They're not, it's not a big company behind this whole partner group. It's all really nice, hardworking people. And I think that's where we're going to be. Really nice, hardworking people that work with me. So, yeah. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. This is a public hearing and I want to take a quick poll. We have three public hearings tonight. So I would ask by a show of hands just to help us. How many are here for the public hearing on this project? Okay, we got a couple. How many are here for the public hearing on the Russell Farm Event Center? Okay. And how many are here for the public hearing on the Apple Land property CEP? Okay. We see where the majority is. Then thank you very much. I will open the public hearing for the conditional use permit at Volcluse Holdings and would ask that you come to the microphone, state your name, your magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes if you'd like to speak to this. And thank you for your time. As you can see, we have a lot of questions. I will go through this. Question and answer is not available without the public hearing's request for a conditional use permit. Would anyone like to speak? Anybody at all? Okay. Then I will close the public hearing. We have been asked to table this. The question came up as to whether the public hearing should be continued until our next meeting to give the final statement. applicant time to work out things with VDOT Mr. McKay you are our lone back creek representative this evening if you would like to make a motion in that direction we could certainly do that and then we could have discussion about it but the question would be would we need a motion to continue the public hearing and to table this until our next meeting which would be the first meeting in April okay and before you make them decide which motion you want to make they're really the only outstanding issue is working with VDOT correct since there's no public comment there's no public here opposing it so I don't know if that it will influence which way you would go extending the public hearing or just tabling it until the next meeting mr. Kearns yes I'm sorry I one more quick thing because there were actually two outstanding things from two outstanding comments from kind of on the on the on the summary here and one was about the proposed septic system and Frederick water is that still outstanding is that I was gonna ask staff is that something that still needs to be addressed yeah it does but the appellate doesn't need to be addressed during the conditional use permit process the Health Department makes that comment to make the applicant aware but they're not going to be able to operate if they don't address the needs of the Health Department so okay and they're well aware I just wanted to make sure thank you now I think it's it's good to maybe give a little more time for VDOT to make some comments since we didn't you know especially with Rogers questions so I move that we table the conditional use permit zero one twenty five until our first meeting in April second would you like to leave the public hearing up in can you include that in your motion sir yes and would like to leave the public hearing open until that meeting we have a motion in a second yeah is there any discussion to my left miss Brandon I just want to make a comment I don't understand VDOT's comments obviously we can't afford but they're saying four to five times more when before it was 80 trips they're adding a hundred twenty four parking spaces that's not four or five times more so I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm concerned that if we try to make them pay roads and do things wouldn't drive a business out of business because they do need to make money and this is looks like a great project to me so I'm concerned that VDOT's gonna put too much on them and I don't understand the four to five times traffic comment when they're adding a hundred twenty four new parking spaces so I'm sorry you're concerned yes any discussion to my right mr. Thomas yeah I'm very concerned on VDOT's comments I think this would be a fantastic addition to Frederick County it's a good business and I think it's something we need in Frederick County and I don't understand where VDOT's coming from we're not I mean we're not they're not adding that much intensity to justify the amount of additional trips that VDOT's talking about so I'm a little concerned we almost need to get involved with the traffic engineer and I think that's a good thing that we need our traffic engineer to get involved between VDOT and the applicant because I don't know that VDOT didn't understand what the applicant said if there was a new person from VDOT reviewed it different than the last person and decided to come up with a bunch of comments but I just don't see the the reason or the justification for these comments I mean I I think we should just approve it tonight but that's a whole nother issue but you know I I think VDOT is going to come up with a lot of good ideas and I think we need to consider some of those and I think we need to consider some of those and I think we need to consider some of those and I think we need to consider some of those maybe looking for a cash cow I don't know but I think you know I think we need to temper what VDOT's gonna come up with yeah mr. chairman if I can just add some context real quickly the taking the parking spaces and assuming that that's the likely trip generation out of that is not the proper calculation because in this instance we're pointed to two almost same as the last Garlic прекрас this lastrires it's the same as I was talking about earlier we took into account the Atlar address the comment or at least what mitigation strategies can be explored prior to a decision that can't be clawed back so that's just the context for how we arrived at our
