Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-10-22
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=301
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you and you you Good evening. I call to order the Frederick County Board of Supervisors Wednesday, October 22, 2025 meeting. We have Pastor Lee Vazon of Vibrant City Church in Winchester to do our invocation. Pastor? If you would please rise, we're going to just welcome God to this place today. God, Heavenly Father, we come before you this evening with gratitude for the privilege of gathering to serve our community. We thank you for the men and the women of this community. We thank you for the women in this room who have been trusted with leadership for the willingness to carry out the weight and responsibility and make decisions that affect the lives of many. Lord, your word reminds us that leadership is the sacred trust. Proverbs 11, 14 teaches that where there is no guidance, a people falls, but in an abundance of counselors, there is safety. So tonight, God, I ask you that you grant this board wisdom, the kind that comes from you, which is pure, peaceable, considerate, and full of mercy. Lord, help each leader here to walk humbly, to listen well, and to seek. May they remember that authority is not about power, Lord, but about stewardship, serving others as you, Lord, have served us. Bless their deliberations with unity and clarity. Protect this community, God, its people, and let your peace dwell here. We ask all this in the name of the one who is the ultimate example of servant leadership, Christ Jesus, our Lord. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. We have a second all those in favor say aye. Aye. All right. We have an agenda Citizens comments this is for agenda items that are not subject to a public hearing No one has signed up mr. Chairman, okay, no one signed up. Is there anyone who would like to speak? Okay, beautiful consent agenda I'm sorry, mr. Chairman I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. I got a motion Second I have a second. Okay, this is a roll call vote supervisor done Supervisor Wells. Uh vice chair. Hi supervisor Lara. Hi supervisor Akins hi and the chair votes aye, okay the Agenda this consent agenda has been approved and adopted so that takes us now to committee business No, I'm sorry. I'm moving ahead here. This takes us to Board of Supervisors comments. Do we have any? All right, I have one we want to welcome supervisor Akins to the Appear on the diets with us. I welcome and looking forward to working with you. Thank you. I look forward to it as well Okay, so county officials We have a discussion regarding the approval of draft 2026 legislative agenda Mr. Tibbs, thank you. Mr. Chairman. I what you have before you Staff has drafted a proposed legislative agenda for the board's discussion and consideration for the 2026 legislative session This agenda is very similar to last year's we have broken it down into the first like four top four priorities Which would be education funding specifically school capital needs and state funding of positions? land use regulation and development particularly ways for new development To pay for new development transfer and then transportation and mental health So this item is before the board for discussion this is not by any means a final list and based on the work session earlier I know that there will be at least one item potentially be added to the list So what staff would be looking for is if the board isn't so inclined you may act on it tonight or you may Take it as information in further discussion But I would like to make sure that we have a discussion on this item I'm going to go ahead and give the board a few minutes to answer any questions that you may have I'm going to go ahead and give the board a few minutes to answer any questions that you may have in the discussion session and I will be looking to do that in the next few minutes I'm going to go ahead and give the board a few minutes to answer any questions that you may have in the next few minutes and then provide additional items or changes and staff can bring a final version in a later meeting and then provide additional items or changes and staff can bring a final version in a later meeting I know there was some concern about the prefiling deadline for legislation and we have double-checked the calendar and you're looking at January to get that done and you're looking at January to get that done So we do have a little bit of time to get a final version adopted So with that Mr. Chairman I will be happy to entertain any questions the board may have Fantastic, thank you Mr. Tibbs Does any board member have a question for Mr. Tibbs? Does any board member have a question for Mr. Tibbs? there's any discussion on this. Mr. Chairman? Yes, Supervisor Dunn. So I think this is a good list, and there are a couple things that if you really want to get something done, I think that you're going to have to go to Richmond. If you really want to get a piece of legislation passed, some of these will require you to write bills, and so for those that are here next year, I'd encourage you to go down and see the governor, see the committee chairs, see the rank of minority members, and decide what is really important, because that's the way you can get something done. I think that in this list, the issue on land use, impact fees, small-scale revisions or small-scale revisions to speed up that process, election integrity, in which you require a citizen to prove that he's a U.S. citizen in the same way you get a passport, unfunded mandates are really things that are important to go, and if you want to get those things, it's going to take more than just passing this legislation. It's going to take some work, and I'd encourage you all to do that. Having said that, I think it's... I think it's a good list, and if the General Assembly can pass it all, I'd be happy. Thanks, Mr. President. Anybody else? I would like to suggest, if anyone would like to entertain the motion, to give us a moment. Let us have a chance to review it and come back. Like Mr. Tiff said, there's one item we are going to put on there for sure, so I would entertain a motion if someone wanted to make one. So moved. Okay, we got a motion. Do we have a second? Second. All right. This would... Ms. Phillips, this roll call vote? No. Awesome. Okay. All those in favor? Aye. Okay, then we will thank you. This will give everybody a chance to review it and see if we move things on the list accordingly, possibly remove things. There are 23, is that correct, Mr. Tibbs, 23 right now? Let me refresh my memory here. There are... Okay. So, the other... I'm sorry. I was going to say, let me see if I can see if I can see it. Okay. So, we broke it down into four primary positions, so those would be priorities that the Board would ideally focus their energy on and would like to see happen, and then we broke it down into other positions, and I think there are 23 other positions that are important but maybe not as important as the primary four, and I would also like to point out that a number of these do mirror VACO's proposed legislative agenda for 2026 as well. Absolutely. Yep. Thank you, Mr. Tibbs. Thank you. Mr. President. Question is, when do you want to have this come back? Oh, we're going to come back the next board meeting. Okay. That's fine. Yeah. That gives us the three and a half, four weeks just to do our due diligence. That's fine. So, thank you. All right, Mr. Tibbs, we'll be back. So, all right. Appointments to the boards, committees, and commissions. We have an appointment for Historic Resources Advisory Board. This is Opec and District. It is Opec and District. Mr. Chairman, I would move to review the agenda of the board meeting. All right. to reappoint Mrs. Carlo. She's willing to serve again and she's done an excellent job. I would move to reappoint for another four-year term. Second. All right. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. Okay. She's appointed. Economic Development Authority, four-year term. Brian Fairbanks. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to reappoint Mr. Fairbanks to another four-year term. Mr. Fairbanks has been a very important member to this authority and has done an outstanding job. I agree. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. All right. All those in favor? Aye. Okay. Mr. Fairbanks is reappointed. Excellent. Northwest Community Services Board. We have a vacant three-year term and we have Buckley application. We have a vacant three-year term and we have Buckley application for Buck Buckley. Does anyone make a motion on this? Do we see attached application of Buck Buckley? Who's working in Northwest Community Services Board? You do not have a liaison to that board, but the Executive Director is in support of that appointment. Okay. Thank you, Ms. Phillips. So we have four-year term. I'd like to have a motion. I'll make a motion for appointment. All right. We have a motion by Supervisor Akins. Second. Second. Okay. By Supervisor Leroy. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Aye. Perfect. We got that out of the way. Winchester Frederick County Tourism Board Launching Sector. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. I'd like to nominate Mr. Ruel Patel. He is the co-owner and manager of three hotels in this area, two in Frederick County, one in Winchester City. Okay. I've sat and chatted with him. I think he'll make a contribution to the Tourism Committee. The Tourism Board also would like to have him as a member. Therefore, I move that he be appointed to that board. Okay. We have a motion. We have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Okay. That gets us through all the committees and commissions appointments. All right. Committee of Business, Finance Committee. Adam. Adam, Vice Chair. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, regarding the Marion Homes, Inc. First of all, the county requires that all organizations which own real property that is exempt from taxation pursuant to a designation of the Board of Supervisors or a designation of the General Assembly shall file an application with the Commissioner of Revenue every three years to retain the tax-exempt designation. The three-year... The three-year application process will occur in 2026. Furthermore, during the discussion at the Finance Committee meeting, the Commissioner of the Revenue advised that she and her staff are proposing changes to this section of the County Code. Given the three-year review of applications which is scheduled for the next year and staff is preparing changes to the section of the County Code, I would move to deny this request and advise the applicant to resubmit as part of the tri-annual review in 2026. We have a motion. Second. We have a second. All right. Any discussion? No? All right. Mr. Akins. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Lero. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Chair votes aye. Okay. It carries. Next. Frederick County Public School Executive Director of Finance requests a general fund and a school capital project fund supplement appropriations in the amount of $2,815,185. Mr. Chairman. I would make a motion to approve the Frederick County Executive Director request for a general fund, a school capital project fund supplemental appropriations in the amount of $2,800,000. We have a motion. Do we have a second? We have a second. Thank you, Supervisor Wells. Supervisor Dunn. Do we have a discussion? Oh, you want to? Yes. No, no. I just had to. You want to have a discussion about it? No. Mr. Chairman, I would make the point that the amount represents a carry forward of unspent, unobligated surplus from the fiscal year 2020 that was in the fiscal year 2020. And it was from the fiscal year 2020 that the amount was in the fiscal year 2020. We have any discussion? Oh, you want to? Yes. I'm just asking. You might have a discussion about it. No. Mr. Chairman, I would make the point that the amount represents a carry forward of unspent unobligated surplus from the fiscal year 25 school operating fund. Local funds, obviously, this has rolled back into the general fund. And the request from the school was that these funds be utilized for the CAP program, which is our capital asset program. So they would take the next items on the list. And as presented in our packet, we have aging HVAC systems at several of the schools and some other projects as they can afford to do those. So I just want to make that point as to how those funds would be utilized. Thank you. Thank you, Vice Chair. Thank you, Madam Vice Chair. Supervisor Dunn? No. I'll vote no. Aye. All right. Supervisor Dunn's aye. Supervisor Wells? I'm sorry. I thought you said anybody else here. Oh, not right. You're ready to move forward on the vote. I'm sorry. Do you want to talk? Excuse me. No, I do not. Okay. Aye. I'm moving on. I mean, I'm sorry. Adam Dreisher? Aye. Supervisor Leroy? Mr. Chair, prior to voting, I would just remind the fellow board members and the public and our staff, that a couple months ago, I went through a review of a conflict of interest, and I got a statement from the county Commonwealth's attorney, Mr. Spicer, that despite the fact that my wife teaches for Frederick County Public Schools, that I did not have a conflict of interest in voting on school-related issues. So I just wanted to put that out there again. But having said that, I vote aye. Thank you, Supervisor Leroy. You're great. Don't worry about it. Supervisor Aikens? Aye. And the chair votes aye. All right. It carries. All right. We have no public hearings. We have no planning commission business. We have no commission business board liaison reports. Supervisor Dunn? So the Social Services Board, I'll play this on to that. Just so you all know, just so you know, they're understaffed, and they have some issues that have to be addressed. They're going to go before the Finance Committee next month to try to explain what they need and why. Then we'll come back to this board. So I'm just putting you all on notice that they have like 18 positions that they need to fill. At some point in time, they're going to have a burnout position. They're going to have staff that are just burnt out. And so just recognize that this could be coming back to all of us in the next couple of months, and we'll have to just deal with it. Thank you, Supervisor Dunn. Any other liaison reports? I've got two. I do, Mr. Chair. All right. Planning Commission, I have no notes for you on that. There was no meeting last week on the 10-15 meeting was canceled, so you are up to date. They have not met since our last meeting on the 8th. Parks and Rec met last Tuesday, the 14th. I'd call your attention to agenda item 6B on tonight's agenda. That's where your details of that meeting are. But I'll just hit a couple of highlights real quick. They accepted changes to the criminal background check policy 500-03, and that is now in compliance with a new code of Virginia 22.1-289.035, which is regarding fingerprints for staff and volunteers to work with children in the Parks and Rec programs. They also made a motion. They accepted the fiscal year 27 youth sports partner contracts. They accepted the fiscal year 27 fees and charges, and the Building and Grounds Committee made a motion to accept the fiscal year 27 capital improvement plan, which is the back page of your item 6B again, and there's 11 items that they've prioritized for their capital improvement plan for next year. That's all I have, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Supervisor Lera. I'm going to follow piggyback on that about Parks and Rec. I was liaison yesterday for Hanley Library, and the library at the, we met at the Bowman Library. This past spring, the Parks and Recreation team added a footbridge across the wetland area by Lakeside Drive. This simple bridge allows more walkable, walkability to Bowman Library and the amphitheater behind it. It also ties community families into the walk around the lake that Parks and Rec has been doing. Parks and Rec had installed a few years back. For Bowman Library, this means families nearby have a safer walking option to the region. A literacy coach and other teachers from Orchard View Elementary School were there last Monday evening to meet with school families and let them see what the library has to offer and encourage them to sign up for library cards. They had the specific thought that some folks would be able to walk to the library. They're already talking about a similar spring program and event. I just want to thank Parks and Rec for doing that. We talked earlier. We talked earlier about different entities in our government agency working together, and that's a perfect example of something so simple as putting a walking bridge in place so that folks could actually walk safely over to the library. And also, year-to-date, Frederick County's activity for using Hanley Library System is 68.67%. We are by far, this is the graph, you can't really see it, but we are by far the biggest user. We are by far the biggest user of the library system, and we do continue to grow in that. So I want to thank Hanley Library. That's helping our kids. And then I'm also liaison for Fire and Rescue. And through the first nine months of the current calendar year, call volume is up approximately 8% from the previous calendar year. Fire and Rescue is on track to surpass 14,000 incidents for calendar year 2025. The current class of 15 recruit firefighters in EMTS is doing well and scheduled to graduate December 11th, and the next recruit class is expected to start mid-November. So I know we got a friend of mine here that's a chief. Are you the president or the vice president? You're the president of the? Vice president. Vice president for Clarebrook. You see a firefighter, you see a volunteer firefighter, you thank them. We are very blessed with this community with what we got, so thank you. So that was my reports. Okay. Citizens' comments. If there's anything that you wish to come forward and speak, if you're coming up, we've got a list. Mrs. Phillips will call you, your name. Reminder, please, give your name, your magisterial district, and keep your comments to three minutes. Mrs. Phillips. David Dixon. I'll have to hold up. Can you check me at the end? If it's over, then it's okay. Janice Dixon. Hi there. My name's Janice Dixon. I'm in the Stonewall District. I'm here to oppose the Woodside substation. The substation is not a substantial accordance with the comprehensive plan. In Clarebrook, Frederick. The purpose of the comprehensive plan is for guiding and accomplishing a coordinated and harmonious development for our territory. Putting our property, present and future needs, and our resources that best promote the health and safety of us general citizens of Frederick County that we have elected you and the morals and the general welfare. Putting a 500 KV substation 44. Okay. That's a lot. I think we have to do it. I think we need to do it. I think we need to do it. The substation is not a substantial one. The substation is not an industrial one. The substation is not a commercial one. The substation is not a commercial one. The substation is not a commercial one. I'm just saying that the fact that you have a home that's 30 feet from home does not meet this criteria. This is not no mitigation for current residential property. The 30 acre substation will gut the home equality of every property in the neighborhood. Clarebrook has already a substation which distributes the electric and serves the citizens. This substation does no benefit for anything but for the Millionaire's Data Center in Lowne County. It's not an industrial use, which has no jobs. And it's not a substation. It's not industrial business. So it does not work for the residential offices or properties surrounding. So I wondered why NextEra Energy was so sneaky and didn't have any answers for any of my questions and I discovered NextEra Energy has lawsuits in 12 states which pled guilty for all the statements, pled guilty for all counts of security frauds, competition blocking, ethnic lawsuits, dark money buying voters. Which they pled guilty to all these illegal and I wonder why would you want to bring this into Frederick County for the people that voted you into office. They pled guilty to line in their pockets. Now I just, I can't believe what's the planning commission want to bring this company in. What are they going to receive? They've already, they've already pled guilty to line in their pockets. And why would they want to allow this kind of corruption and destruction in our neighborhood? And let me say this. They've already pled guilty to line in their pockets. They've already pled guilty to line in their pockets. They've already pled guilty to line in their pockets. Which NextEra Energy pled guilty to unethical engaged practices to influence politics and max profit. NextEra Energy has disregard for permits, wildlife, agriculture, family health and concerns, manipulating and so many legal court cases that they pled guilty to all of them. And we want to prove this and bring this substation for disrespecting the Frederick County's personal property. And basically we don't want the illegal conduct and greed to affect our homes and lives. So the case of the board is to override the planning commission and we'd like to ask you to vote against this because the attorney works for us and we are the people of Frederick County. We do not agree with what this has been proposed. It doesn't meet the comprehensive plan or future for anybody in Clearbrook. And nobody's ever told us the benefit of this. NextEra Energy pled guilty to line in their pockets. NextEra Energy pled guilty to unethical engaged practices to influence politics and so many legal practices that they pled guilty to all of them. And we want to prove this and bring this substation anyway because we already have one that distributes the electric to all the citizens in Clearbrook and Frederick County. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Ken Dondero. Good evening all. Ken Dondero from the Redbelt District. Congratulations to those of you who find yourselves in these new chairs and these positions. Thank you for the work you've done and what I hope you will do in the future. I know it was only a month ago where I stood here when we talked about transferable development rights and asked and the suggestion came up from the board that there be a work session. So my question is has anyone directed staff to start the process of getting that work session to begin? And again to reiterate as I did a month ago that if there is to be a work session or if there's any discussion like that that I could possibly be a part of as a landowner or as a property owner here in the county. I would very much appreciate it. I would very much like to be a part of any discussion that happens. Anything that you'd allow me to be a part of. That's what I want to be a part of. So I just figured I'd take a moment to say that. Thanks, sir. Thank you. Alfred Giorzi. I'm the chair. I'm the Madam Chair. My name is Alfred Giorzi. I live in Lovisville, Virginia located in northwest Loudoun County. During the last session. Okay. I was just about to say that the opinion was expressed that the board would be bound by the decision of its attorney with respect to the legality of the planning commission's decision. Unless I'm mistaken, the board is the client. The attorney's role is support the decision of the client in case the board, whatever that decision may be, and whether or not he may or she may or may not agree with it. It is the attorney's obligation. It is his obligation to defend the board's decision to the best of his or her ability. So, I don't think you're bound by his legal opinion. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Theresa Giorzi. Hi, I'm Theresa Giorzi. I live in Lovisville. We used to have a house on the street. We are moving in. We're moving into a new facility. We have a new facility. We are moving to a new apartment. We are moving into a new home. We are moving into a new apartment. We're moving into a new apartment. We are moving into a new apartment. We have a new parking lot. We are moving into a new apartment. We used to have a cottage out here at Shawnee Land in Winchester and I had spoken before you about the Woodside substation. I don't want to repeat my comments, but I would like to reiterate that it is not in accordance with your comprehensive plan and that that subdivision is for residential use only and it never should have been shaded blue and you have no authority to make their residential area a light industrial area with a 500 kV substation 40 feet from their homes. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Steve Payton. One of the few times I have to raise the microphone. Good evening. Sorry. My name is Steve Payton and I live on Jolene Drive in Ridgeway, Wisconsin. I am the director of the Ridgeway Estates in the Stonewall District. For my first topic tonight, I would like to respectfully request a review of the Frederick County Comprehensive Plan, specifically lot 24 of the Frederick County, I'm sorry, lot 24 of Ridgeway Estates in the Northeast Land Use Plan being designated as an industrial area. I have previously attended board meetings pertaining to this document as it related to the CARMU's plans previously before the board. It was not until recently that I zoomed into it. I zoomed into the document and realized that lot 24 is owned rural agriculture but is designated as a future industrial area. And I reached out to the planning office this morning trying to figure out when that designation changed and Wyatt let me know tonight that as of 2014, it had been industrial. So I'd still like to know when the actual change went. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and read the document. All right. If you will, as I mentioned, the plan is being designated as an industrial area. I realize the comprehensive plan document is a guideline for future development and all the rural agricultural land between the bridge on Cedar Hill, over 81, to the West Virginia Line is essentially shaded industrial. And that's the long term plan for this area from what I understood from my discussions this morning. However, I'm hoping that there was an administrative error when shading in lot 24 as a future industrial area since it's located in a housing development designated for single-family homes. As I believe you've heard, any change to the single-family home requirements or any of the other covenants requires a majority of the homeowner's approval. Today, we're unified against any proposed changes to the covenant. The second topic I'd like to raise is the need for the Board of Supervisors to be the voice of the people and hold developers and landowners like the Orndorff family accountable to live up to the plan they presented to the county for approval of this development, such as the deed of declaration and the plat for Ridgeway Estates. As stated in the deed, all the lots shown on this aforesaid survey shall be subject to the following covenants, conditions, reservations, and restrictions, each and every one of which is and all are for the benefits of the owners of land and Ridgeway Estates, and shall pass with each and every conveyance of land, hereby dedicated, and shall buy, in rooms, either by nature, or by familial Fall before their birth and in im�ר which then is also due in lands removing land – Pro pulses where they are increased performance in quality and usal production by reliant on saleable land as the final 55 indicative不起 of the reform tol of that a form- Wrestle the Frederick County to not have to comply with the plan they presented to the county. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Ms. Phillips. Is there anyone else who would like to speak, come up and speak for anything? Okay. We will close the citizens' comments. Board of Supervisors' comments. Do we have any? Ms. Madam Vice Chair. Oh. Okay. Supervisor Dunn. To Mr. De Niro's comment, I'm unaware right now of any workshop on TDRs. I think there should be a workshop. I think there's an item that should be discussed, but the board has not scheduled one at this time. If all of you want to discuss a workshop before December, that would be great, or early next year. But I'm not aware of any issue on that. Thank you, Supervisor Dunn. Any other comments? Madam Vice Chair. I will make a motion that we adjourn. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. There you go. Thank you. Thank you all for coming out tonight.
