Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-06-10
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=354
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you That remains I was gradually becoming aware that The消 anticlimrib遊戲 cross or whatever's called the green side. The green side, right? The white side. Yep. The green side. The 40 is also green. The normal amount of. And what are they putting in the fence? It's your story, partner. Yeah. I just don't live there. And it's protecting just the buffer, which is what they're trying to do. Ah, I see. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, right. Yes, there's some trees there. Yes, there's some fence. I see. Yeah. What's yours? I've never seen sunrise before. Oh, it's on the morning. Yeah, it's on the morning side. Oh, OK. It is on the morning side, so you're right about the sun. Yeah. We know I'm not right behind it, but it's still . Sure. It's just a good display. Yeah, you got some sun on it. Okay. potent. I called to order the board of supervisors Wednesday, June 10th, For invocation tonight, we have Pastor Bobby Alger of Crossroads Community Church. Pastor, great to have you here. Thank you, sir. Good to be here. Would you stand with me and remain standing as we do the pledge? Heavenly Father, I thank you for this night that we are gathered together. Lord, you have given us a responsibility to steward the resources that you've given us, both natural and people and man-made God. We pray that we would steward that which you've given us well. You say, God, that when we lack wisdom to come to you and ask, and you would give freely. And we thank you for that invitation. I thank you for the board, God. I thank you for this gathering. I pray, Lord, that decisions and agreements that are made would honor you and bless the citizens of our county for generations to come. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Please join me in a blessing of the Lord. I pledge allegiance to the flag. And the United States of America. And to the republic for which it stands. One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Next item up is adoption of the agenda. How would the board like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I will move for the adoption of the agenda to be approved. I've got a motion. Second. All right. This is a voice vote. All those in favor? Aye. All those opposed? All right. We're good to go. Okay. Next item up is citizens' comments. Now, this is for an agenda item that is not subject to a public hearing. Madam Clerk. We have no one signed up for this comment period. We have several for the one at the end of the meeting. Thank you very much. Is there anyone that wanted to speak? All righty. I'm going to close the citizens' comments. Next item up is consent agenda. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we accept the consent agenda as approved. All right. I have a motion. Second. I have a second here. Okay. This calls for a roll call vote. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Supervisor Warnedorf? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Guvermont? Aye. And the Chair votes aye. All right. Consent agenda is approved. Next item up is Board of Supervisors comments. Do we have any? I'm looking to my right. I'm looking to my left. We're moving on. Very good. Very good. Next item up is county officials. We're going to have the first item up is 8A, Virginia Cooperative Extension, Introduction of New Agriculture and Natural Resource Agents, serving the Northern Shenandoah Valley. Well, good evening, Chairman Jewell and members of the board. My name is Elizabeth Baldwin. I'm an Agriculture and Natural Resources Extension agent that serves the Northern Shenandoah Valley. I do work out of the Page County office, but I've come here this evening to share just a few key highlights from programs that we have, and then most importantly to introduce our new staff members. Awesome. And thank you all. So a couple of highlights over the past year that I just wanted to hit on. Some things that our staff have really focused on are some invasive species. When we think about spotted lanternfly, box tree moth, spongy moth, which was formerly known as gypsy moth, and others really pose a threat to our agriculture, forestry, and our natural landscape. They cost our state a little over a billion dollars each year. So we have led kind of a multi-county educational and outreach effort. We've partnered with our master gardeners, the Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, as well as local governments, to train about 1,200 residents, business owners, and farmers in identifying, reporting, and managing these invasive species. And so that's really led to some early detection, increased public reporting, reduced plant hosts, and really helping protect our high-value crops that we have in the area. Something else we've really worked on is pesticide safety education. So as you may or may not know, farmers who want to apply restricted-use pesticides, or anybody that applies pesticides as part of their job, is required to be a certified athlete, and they're required to be a certified athlete, and they're required to be a certified athlete, and they're required to be a certified athlete, and so that's something that our offices do as well. We certify private applicators, and then we also provide recertification to private and commercial folks. So over the past year, we've recertified about 123 private and 189 commercial applicators that were recertified through our offices, and then over the past five years in our area, we've had about 1,500 individuals receive their recertification. So these efforts really help ensure legal and responsible pesticide use, and also really support our public health. So we've had a lot of work done to reduce the cost of our farmers' winter feeding costs. So we've had a lot of work done to reduce the cost of our farmers' winter feeding costs. We've worked with farmers to reduce winter feeding costs. Unfortunately, this year, as we think about the drought, we're thinking about feeding livestock, maybe even outside of wintertime. And so we know that these costs often exceed over half of a farm's annual cost that have livestock. So finding new ways to graze animals, feed hay differently, all helps profitability in maintaining animal health as well as our soil health as well. And we have one colleague, Mr. Bobby Clements. He's a farmer from the Clark who serves our area. He's worked on a multi-state research study that he received a grant for and looking at slugs in soybeans. And so he's conducting that research throughout Frederick County as well as all the other five counties that he serves. And so that's been a really exciting project that's led him to get to travel internationally to share his research work as well. And so we've done some other things with some quality assurance trainings, like beef quality assurance training and youth for the quality care of animals. And both of these are certification programs. And so we've been working with our producers to see how we can get some of the best certifications that producers and our young youth producers can get. And that not only teaches them some good best management practices, but also gives them that certification that they can use to market their product and maybe receive some added value for that. So, you know, with that, we also have routine things that we always do, our forage testing, soil testing, water testing, insect identification, and all of those kind of things. So that was my quick update. And then I'll turn it over to Mr. Clark Sutphin and Mr. Bobby Clark that were serving all five of the counties that we cover. And so that's a lot of land and a lot of area to cover. So through your all and other counties' support and advocacy for us, we've been able to fill two positions that were vacant, which would be the Warren County and Clark County positions. And I'll introduce those folks in just a moment. And we were also able to add a new position here in Frederick County. And that position focuses on consumer horticulture. There were two positions. One of those was my position as well as the Warren County 4-H position that was last year 100% county funded. And so now as of this year, there are state funds that support both of those positions, taking some of the burden off of our local counties. So thank you all for your help in that and in supporting our programs. So I'll introduce our new folks first. First, I'll start with Ms. Candice DeLong. Candice is based here in the Frederick County. She's the head of the Frederick County office, so she works right upstairs. And Ms. Candice has joined us as an associate agriculture natural resource agent and focusing on consumer horticulture and working with our wonderful Extension Master Gardeners. Candice received her master's degree in horticulture from Virginia Tech. She spent much of her time at the Olsen H. Smith AREC in Winchester where she was able to work closely with our local growers in the region. And after graduating, she continued to work in the Winchester apple industry. She spent some time in West Virginia as an Extension agent, so we're happy that she's back here with us and happy that she's here. So if you have any questions or need anything at all, feel free to reach out to her. In Warren County, which serves this area as well, we've got Ms. Cynthia Fairbanks. She's our new associate agriculture natural resources Extension agent there. She has a background in animal science, ag business, economics, and a real passion for agriculture education. She received her bachelor's and master's degree from Virginia Tech in agricultural and applied economics. And so we're very excited for her to be with us as well. And then lastly, we've got Ms. Liz Rohrer. And Liz is housed in the Clark Unit office, and so she brings a lot of experience as well. She spent nearly two decades in agriculture education and working with environmental science and community engagement. So she has a strong background in agribusiness as well and is really passionate about translating research work. And she's also a very good resource based knowledge to our local counties and local residents. So I just wanted to take a moment and introduce those folks and thank you all. It's due to your support that we have them here. And so we're excited to offer more programs and serve residents here in Frederick County better now that we've got some more folks. Well, Ms. Spalding, thank you. For the folks that are sitting in this room and those that are watching, take a moment or take a few minutes to go online and look and see what the extension of the program is. Thank you. I'm going to start with the extension office does. We've been working. I know I've met with the big shot down at Virginia Tech several times trying to get additional funding. We are very, very fortunate. I don't think people realize how much that the extension office helps us. And the fact that we have a research lab right here in Frederick County, and it's phenomenal. It's phenomenal. And they've helped with issues with the gypsy moth. And they've helped with a lot of timber up in Star Tannery. And I know I called on Mark and you all were fantastic. And I know Supervisor Orndorff, he attends the meetings. And there's a true appreciation for what you're doing for our farmers, for our agriculture, for our kids. 4-H, my kids were all 4-H All-Stars. And I cannot thank you enough because what you do for the children. 4-H, I believe, has grown over 200% in the last two or three years here. So you've got so many different things that you're working for these counties and for our citizens. And I just really hope you know how much we appreciate you. We welcome you. We thank you. And we're looking forward to working with you. Well, thank you so much, Chairman George. Thank you. Appreciate it. Okay. Next up is 8-B, Amendment of Memorandum. Mr. Bolhofer. Yes, before you tonight, for you to take a moment. I just want to say that the first item for you to decide upon is a change, an amendment to the MOU with the City of Winchester. And this amendment has three separate items in it. The first item actually explains the amount we're going to increase the funding to the tourism board. The previous tax rate for the transient occupancy tax was 3.5%. And of that, we gave 1.5% to the tourism board. That amount will be increased by .75%, which will give them a total of 2.25% of the total 6% of the tax. The second item on there to change is that they are pulling out the part down there where it gives you the change in the city's annual contribution shall be 50% of the amount calculated using the above-noted formula until the city's total overall transient occupancy tax revenues exceed 1 million. That was actually put in there during COVID because they were afraid. Okay. So, they pulled that out. They're afraid that the tourism tax dollars would be low for quite a while. It's not necessary. So, they pulled that out. There is no detrimental effect to the county based on pulling that out. And the primary change on here is changing the fiscal agent. This amendment would make the county of Frederick the fiscal agent for the tourism board instead of the city. The language in there has a date of beginning on or about August 1st. I would like to change that date to September 1st because after meetings with Mary Blow, discussions I've had with the city, I would like to change that date to September 1st. I would like to change that date to September 1st because after meetings with Mary Blow, discussions I've had with Justin, the tourism board, and all our staff, we believe we need an extra month to get that done, the change done. Okay. Thanks, sir. Well, I will entertain a motion for this. I'll make a motion to approve as amended by the county administrator. All right. I got a motion. Second. I got a second. Any discussion regarding this? All right. It's a roll call vote. Supervisor Gouvenmont? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Leo? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Supervisor Oates? Aye. The chair votes aye. It's approved. Thank you very much. 8C, county administrator update. Why 26 revenues? Yes. In the past budget season, we raised our taxes, and there's an interesting nuance when you do that, and it's based on the real property taxes and purchase rates. And we raised our taxes. And we raised our taxes. And we raised our taxes. And we raised our property taxes and personal property taxes. Our year is based on a fiscal year, which begins July 1, but the taxes are based on a calendar year. So in effect, when we passed the budget in April, the tax rate increase went into effect for those taxes that were sent out to be paid in June. So we will receive a greater amount in fiscal year 2026. And so that amount will be going into this current fiscal year. We've taken a look at several estimates of this. We believe that a dollar amount on that increase will be approximately $9 million. I feel more comfortable being an accountant always giving a range between $8 and $9 million. Those funds will be in this year. You know, at the end of the year, when we recalculate our fund balance, a portion of that will be going into whatever our reserve is. A portion will be going into that infamous or famous 3% float. And probably the largest portion of that will be going into our capital fund. So I know there were discussions at a previous workshop to do something with those funds. I just wanted to give you the best estimate we have at this time of what that amount is. Okay. Up for discussion. Does anybody have? The only comment I would have, Mr. Chairman, is that there's got to be a better process in our finance department. And I'm not the one that's going to be able to identify what that is. But when we're talking about this, I'm not the one that's going to be able to identify what that is. But when we're talking about this, I'm not the one that's going to be able to identify what that is. Initially, if we go from ejemplo to example, if we're not doing any more changes before the end of the year, I think this is good to start working with отвечy which I think, along those lines, is going to makeskz at the end of the year and those kind of predictions and then be with all the families and З conversation begins. and figure out how we give more accurate figures during the budget process so that we can make more accurate decisions. Yes, Mr. Bolhoffer. Yes, I agree with the statements on that, but we have identified what the issue is, and it has been addressed, and it will not happen again. We have figured out where the error was in our ways. Very good. Very good. One of the discussion points that we had was, and Supervisor Oates brought it up, about possibly bumping up. We originally gave employees a 3% raise, and we gave public safety 7% was, do we want to consider going, last year we gave employees a 4% raise. So, I'm going to put it out there. Mr. Chairman. I would like to, before we make those decisions, I'd like to see something. One, I'd like to see the salaries study. Okay. And what that study is going to tell us. I'd also, and I'm not on the Human Resources Committee, I'd also like to know, are all the job descriptions up to date? And does that matter? I'd like to see that. So, before we make any decisions, having that information in front of us would be helpful. Fair. Good. I'll add to that. I've never been a huge proponent in my company on flat increases across the board. Everybody, in my opinion, they remain on payroll, they're doing their job, and they deserve a cost of living increase. But there's also the individuals out there that go up and beyond. And some of those individuals deserve merit increases. So, I would challenge that the HR department explores that. When we're looking at the salary study that our supervisor Orndorff recommended, that we really think about what is our policy as a county relative to merit increases. Good. Okay. So, everybody good? We're going to go with put the money in the different accounts. And do the study. And then we'll come back and be able to make a very good decision on what we should be doing. Good? All righty. Moving on. Okay. Next up is appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. 9A, Winchester Regional Airport Authority. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gene Fisher's four-year term is up. But he's eligible and willing to be reappointed, and I would so move. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. We got a motion. Second. We have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Anybody opposed? All right. Good to go. Social Services Board, Bat Creek District. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, first of all, I'd like to thank Kermit Gaither for his service. He's in his second or third, I'm not sure which, and is not eligible to be reappointed. And, again, I'd like to thank Kermit Gaither for his service. I'd like to thank him for his service on the Social Services Board. Also, I would like to nominate Julie Farrell to replace Mr. Gaither on the Social Services Board. She does, has a background in her current work and understands Medicaid. And also, if you had a chance to review her resume, I'm also on the Board of Directors for Temporary Care. And so, I do know Ms. Farrell and her work, and she is a quality person, and I'm confident that she will contribute to the Social Services Board. All right. We have a motion. Second. We have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Excellent. We've got two good folks here going on back right now on these boards. Northwestern Community Services Board. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. It's my pleasure to ask for Mr. John Lamar to be appointed to the Northwestern Community Services Board. He's done an excellent job on our Services Board in the past, and I know he'll be an outstanding member of this board. All right. We've got a motion. Second. We have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. All three of these folks are great people that are helping in the community. So, thank you very much. Now, we're on to Committee Business. All right. First thing up, we have a public hearing amendment to the Articles of Incorporation of Frederick County Service Authority. Hello there, Ms. Perkins. How are you? Good. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the board. I'll be very brief. This is a request from the Frederick Winchester Service Authority to amend our Articles of Incorporation. Primary change with this is to reduce the number of members from nine down to five. It also equalizes the board between the city and the county. So, we're going to two city, two county, and then one joint. So, that's the primary change in that. Along with that, the FWSA board did recommend some of the members to go on that board. Continuation of Eric Lawrence and Cheryl Whittle from Frederick Water, as well as a joint appointment for John Willingham, who's our current chairman, with specified terms. And these are, since we're reducing the number of boards, we're redoing the entire appointments. So, they would be new terms. They're staggered. The city of Winchester did review this and approve it at a public hearing at their May 26th meeting. So, I'd be glad to answer any questions if there are any. Any questions for Ms. Perkins? Okay. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Mr. Chairman, it's a public hearing. I'm moving along. Okay. Madam Clerk, anybody sign up? No one has signed up. Anybody want to come speak? Are there any questions about this? There we go. Now I can close it. Now we can move on. All right. How would the board like to handle this? Make a motion for approval as presented. All right. You got a second. Second. We got it. All right. Discussion? Any discussion? Okay. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Supervisor Warndorff? Aye. Vice-Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Leo? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Gou Bret? Aye. Chair votes aye. All right. It is approved. Thank you. approved that takes care of all that action. Next up is rezoning number zero. Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. Do we have to do the... You have the two items after the public hearing that need action. Okay. Well, she listed off Eric, and so I figured that covered it. So, okay. So we got to make a motion for the approval of the revised agreement that's requested and the board recommendations, correct? Okay. Do I have a motion? Public hearing. Public hearing. Public hearing. Okay. All right. Action items after. Mr. Chairman, I've had the honor of serving on this for the last five years, and Eric and I are crafting this with the city with the help of Ms. Perkins. With the approval of this, I'll be getting kicked off the committee. I'll no longer be a member. One less committee to attend, but this is very beneficial for Frederick Water and Frederick County. Excellent. So I would make a recommendation. We approve the amendment to the Opec and Wastewater Reclamation Facility and move that we appoint Eric Lawrence, Chair Whittle, and John Willingham. Awesome. Okay. We got a motion? Second, Mr. Chairman. We got a second. This will be a roll call vote as well. Supervisor Grumont? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Leroy? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Warndorf? Aye. Supervisor Roots? Aye. Chair Boes, aye. We're good to go. Congratulations. You've been kicked off. All right. Now we're going to go to Planning, Commission, Business, Public Hearings. Hello, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Eric Banner, Planner 2. This is a request by Snowden Bridge Station, LLC, to rezone 1.61 acres from B2 General Business with proffers to B2 General Business and IA Interstate Area Overlay District with modified proffers. The property is located at 1818 Martinsburg Pike in the Stonewall Magisterial District and was previously rezoned in rezoning 0122. The property is located here with the red dot in relation to the City of Winchester and the bounds of Frederick County. Zoning in closer to the property, staff do want to note this is an older aerial. The property has since had an improved site plan and has been developed as a convenience store and gas station. The property is bounded on two sides by Martinsburg Pike and Snowden Bridge Boulevard and then on the other two sides by businesses. The property is zoned as B2 along with the entire surrounding area. Staff would note that 1784 Martinsburg Pike and several properties going south on 11 while zoned as General Business are currently in use as residential. The property is identified in the Northeast Frederick land use plan as being business, specifically Interstate. The purpose of that district is to advance and promote commercial businesses in service of the interstate state. The request before you is to have the Interstate Overlay District which would allow for an interstate sign that is visible from I-81. To that end, the applicant has volunteered proffers. This proffer statement is largely appointed by the identical to the proffers that are currently on the property. The exception is proffer number two, which is revised to owner will be permitted one interstate overlay sign along the frontage of Martinsburg Pike and one monument sign. Overall, the proposed rezoning is in conformance with the comprehensive plan and advances the Northeast Frederick area plan for interstate business. Staff do note that while the property doesn't adjoin any residential properties directly, it is in close proximity to residential uses and the proposal could impact those. Also, while the applicant is proposing a sign approximately 46 feet in height, if approved, that sign could be allowed approximately 110 feet in height. The interstate overlay district is based on sea level. In this case, for this intersection, it's 815 feet above sea level. This is the GDP with the location of the proposed sign outlined in red. And then this is the proposed outline of the sign. Staff will note that this is not a proffer design and the design, it's not a proffer design, but it's a proffer design. So, this is the proposed outline of the sign. Staff will note that this is not a proffer design, but it's a proffer design. Staff will note that this is not a proffer design. The proposed and proposed line indicates that a primary union PS policy that will be streak program that will literally summarize a planet with a common land but indirectly effective in reducing resistance to passenger directives and working boundaries to all targets. This mocks the CSO iedereen impact factors and speculatives 14 by 14. Staff are shadowed. Y'all heard that for the past year or so. Should the whole community remember those進 darge sign Росс w members for school district layout. So for staff a чr I'm not known of, but I hope. Okay. Thank you, Ms. Spitter. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Madam Clerk, I opened up a public hearing. Madam Clerk, can you say? No one has signed up for this one. Okay. Is there anyone that would like to come and speak for or against this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm Mr. Chairman Ty Lawson here on behalf of the applicant. We're pleased to have, I believe it was unanimous or possibly 11 to 1 vote in support from the Planning Commission. They actually reminded me of a few things. We created this district a long time ago, and it's to attract business from the interstate that's traveling through our county and have them purchase some products before they depart and, of course, collect the tax revenue. The area around us is commercial and industrial. And let me see if this will work. Which one? Oh, you got it. Okay. Thank you. Just to give you an idea of where we are and the proximity of other signs at this interchange, we're actually a little closer to the interchange than some of the others that are near. And as Mr. Bittner pointed out, the height is dictated by above sea level, and we're just trying to be in conformance with that district. And this is the boundaries of it and also how you apply to it in conformance with the comp plan. And just in case anybody cares, there are standards about the signs, and how they're built and so on that are baked into the ordinance, and we'd be in full compliance with those. But we're happy to answer any questions, and we appreciate the endorsement from the Planning Commission. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Lawson. Anyone else who'd like to speak? All right. I'm going to close the public hearing. The Stonewall District. Mr. Chairman, I recommend approval of rezoning 03-26. Okay. We got a motion? Second. We got a second. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Supervisor Onderwood? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Supervisor Aikens? Aye. Supervisor Gouverment? Aye. And Chair votes aye. Okay. We're good to go with that one. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bittner. Thank you. How are you? I'm good. How are you? Good. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the board. This is a request for a conditional use permit for a public garage. The property is approximately one acre and is located at 541 Rue Buck Road, and it's located in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. The map identifies the property in red along the northern border of the county adjacent to the Berkeley County, West Virginia, just west of Interstate 81. Thank you. The property is accessed off of Rue Buck Road. The proposed sketch shows the parking location highlighted in yellow. The existing parking area is graveled and is located behind an existing board-on-board fence fronting Rue Buck Road. These are the applicant's proposals and not the conditions. The proposal is to operate a repair garage inside an existing 1,200-square-foot structure. The proposed construction is to be completed in the following order. For the repair, replacement, and maintenance of brakes, steering, suspension, engine, and transmission, noting that this is not a performance garage. Proposed hours of operation are 9 a.m. to 5, Monday through Friday, with no weekend hours proposed. Three customers daily for drop-off only. There's no customer waiting. Inoperable vehicles are dropped off by the customer's provided service. Vehicles are placed within the existing gravel area behind the existing OPS. The current ordinance permits a public garage with an approved conditional use permit and requires that all repairs take place entirely within the enclosed structure, that all exterior storage of parts and equipment are screened from surrounding properties by an opaque fence six foot in height. Inoperable motor vehicles are stored inside the enclosed building or screened on all sides. By a six-foot opaque fence. And sale of vehicles are prohibited. Should the Board of Supervisors find this use to be appropriate, the Planning Commission recommended the following conditions. All review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. An illustrative sketch plan shall be submitted to and approved by Frederick County, and all improvements completed prior to the establishment of the use. All automotive related activities, including repairs, shall occur entirely within an enclosed structure. Exterior storage of parts and equipment shall be screened from view by a six-foot tall opaque fence. Exterior storage of tires are prohibited. All parking shall have a gravel or hard surface. The business is not permitted employees beyond those residing on the property. Proposed hours Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. A maximum of eight vehicles awaiting service within the fenced parking area would be permitted. Access to the property is limited solely to Rubuck Lane, and any extension or changes of use shall require a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission held a public hearing in May 6, 2026 and recommended approval and following the public hearing staff is seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors on this conditional use permit. Staff is available to answer any questions and the applicant is also in attendance to answer any questions that you may have. Any questions for staff? Would this be the... Sorry. Would that be correct that this is the same property that was in violation up until the point where they submitted for CUP? Yes, sir. Okay. So, that's fine. Thank you. I just wanted to be sure I was correct. Any questions? Any questions for the applicant? If the applicant, yeah. Okay. Good evening. My name is Eric Chase. I'm the applicant. Thank you. I have a few questions for you. I would start out by asking what's the name of your business? Clearbrook Auto Repair. Clearbrook Auto Repair. And you've been operating there for how long? I was operating up there until I was asked to shut it down. I would say roughly about six months. For six months? Yes, sir. Was there a reason why you didn't apply for a CUP ahead of time? No, sir. I was unaware that I needed one. You weren't aware that you needed one? No, sir. You have a business license? I do now. But did you then? No, not at the time. So, you were operating the business without a business license and non-conformance with our CUP plan, business plan? Yes, sir. I see the hours of operation and I'm very familiar with your area up there. So, as late as just last week, things were coming in at 9 o'clock at night, 10 o'clock at night? Yes. Yes, you know that and I know that. So, we'll leave it at that. I'm just generally concerned that there's not been a... outward show of good faith on your part that you've done well. You weren't doing well with the business to begin with and now you're coming before the board and saying, oh, wait a minute, I've seen the light, I'm going to do a good job. I'm having a hard time with that, just to be honest with you. But thank you for taking my questions. Absolutely. Anyone else? Thanks, sir. I do have a question actually. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I've driven by your house. I'm having a hard time with my car. I'm driving by your house. I'm understanding the new sketch that's in the packet. Would you mind bringing up the sketch? I just want to make sure that I'm understanding everything that is being proposed. Okay. So, right now, there's a fence that's right at, I'll call it at the, I don't know the pointer, but at the backside of the house. That's where you have a gate. And then the fence is on the left-hand side going all the way up. I don't see a fence drawn on your plan. I'm assuming the entire backside. The entire backside from your house all the way to Sassafras and looping to the right and coming right back down that page to where your gate is going to be 100% fenced? Yes. Okay. Yes, that's the plan. So, okay. I just wanted to make sure I understood that right. Yeah. All right. Anybody else? Okay. Thanks, sir. Thank you. Okay. This is a public hearing. Madam Clark? No one signed up for this one. Okay. Is there a motion to approve this? Okay. Is there anyone that would like to come and speak for or against this? Yes, sir. Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, good afternoon, board members. I live just to the north of this property, 553. Can I get your name and magistrate? I'm sorry. Yes, Gainsborough District, Donaldsville, Dotson III. Thanks, sir. I live just to the north of this property, which is just to his, if you're looking at the houses, just to his right. While I understand it hasn't been an easy 11 years living next to Eric Chase, as we all knew, over the last year and a half since he's paid his debt to society, he's been a good person. He has done a 180. He is trying to be a better person. I get up every morning between 2.30 and 3.30 a.m. I drive a tractor trailer for a living. I get a full eight-hour sleep. And as far as the 9 p.m. thing, I don't remember that happening this week. Of course, I was in bed, so I mean, I really don't know that. But I don't hear it. I understand. My bedroom is 30, I think I measured it last weekend, I think it's 38 feet off of his driveway. Everybody deserves a second chance in life. I believe this might be his. I'm for it. And I hope you all would be for it, too. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anybody else that would like to speak? Yes, ma'am. Hello. My name is Sue Shaw, and I live on Roebuck Road. When I moved into Roebuck Road, it was a residential area. Now it seems it's going into a business district. There's a lot of noise, a lot of vehicles, a lot of children that like to walk on their roads. And they can't do it. Because you've got wreckers coming in. You've got children who have seizures from the lights. And it seems like, you know, the planning commission didn't care. You had people who were running their wreckers, running their trucks into my yard, coming up sassafras. They didn't care to tear it up. And I'm sure they're going to be there. I'm sure they're going to be there. I'm sure they're going to be there. They didn't care that the metal from the vehicles was tearing our lawnmowers up. We had to repair. Our yard, we had to repair. The noise continues. The wreckers coming in, all airs. It's not just from 9 to 5. And I'm hoping that you all will stop this before it gets any worse on Roebuck Road. Because once you give one permit to do it, you're going to have more. And I hope that you stop it now. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else that'd like to speak? Not seeing anybody coming forward, I'll close the public hearing. All right, this is Gainesboro District. I'm compassionate with the neighbors. During the Planning Commission, the Planning Commission had a much longer conversation. There were other people that came up. There were issues along Sassafras. But I also respect the fact that Mr. Chase is trying to improve himself. I'm a firm believer that everybody has the right to enjoy their own home. Their home is their castle. And they need to have peaceful enjoyment of it. There's been a lot of comments that I've heard. I think some other board members have also heard concerns about excessive noise, traffic. And I've since learned that there's other businesses on Roebuck that might not be doing businesses the way with a CUP. And I have a problem with that as well. I think we all need to do business in the county the right way to protect the residents around. And I understand that Mr. Chase, he wasn't doing it right. And I'm willing to give him a chance to do it right under a few conditions. Because I am definitely going to be a proponent that if these conditions aren't met in short order, I'm going to be a proponent that if these conditions aren't met in short order, that I will recommend a revoke of the CUP. Because we all have to run our businesses by certain rules. So with that being said, some of the conditions that I've got are that I understand that in the conditions that were on the screen, that all the work was going to be inside. But it needs to be done inside with the door shut. Okay? That's going to keep the noise down. I'm going to get a little bit of a break. Going to get hot in the summer. You might want to figure that out. There can't be any outdoor storage that the neighbors can see. And so you get another condition that if it includes the construction of another structure, then that's what you're going to need to do. There can't be, I know the tires aren't permitted, but I mean there's a shop that was down the street from where I work every day. There's a huge pile of mufflers outside. Very unsightly. Okay? And so outdoor storage of parts, anything, has to be in an enclosed structure. The gate should be closed during non-business hours. And probably the most important is that there could not be any deliveries of any vehicles outside of normal business hours. So if the proposed application is not approved, excuse me, the applicant is proposing from 9 a.m. to 5, doesn't matter to me what time the wrecker gets there as long as it's between 9 a.m. and 5. Because again, the neighbors deserve to have the peaceful enjoyment of their own home. So if that is acceptable to the applicant, then I would make a motion for approval. Okay. Well, we got a motion. Well, Mr. Chairman, I'll just say that Supervisor Orndorff and I were at the planning session when this was discussed. I will tell you that I was inspired by a person who wants to make something of themselves, open a business, and I'm all about entrepreneurship. I agree with Supervisor Aikens that it's a good thing. I agree with Supervisor Aikens. Okay. And Supervisor Wells' comments about doing it right. If you operate a business, you have to do it right. And I would agree that if you don't do it right, I would, while I'll be in favor of it today, if you don't comply, I will, like with Mr. Aikens, I would quickly pull your CUP. So I'm just going to encourage you from my seat that if this gets approved, do it 100 percent. Buy the book with appropriate intention. And, you know, then you'll have a great business and we'll all be cheering for you. So that's my comment. Thank you. Anybody else? Yes, Supervisor Rhodes. The other year, I was on a planning commission. We had CUPs out in the RA. One of the things with a CUP is it has to be harmonious with the surrounding area. And to me, as long as the neighbors are fine with the CUP, I'm fine with it. Okay. If the neighbors are fine with the CUP, I never had an issue with it. If a neighbor, especially an adjoiner, had issues, then to me it wasn't going to be harmonious because it's already starting off in the wrong foot. And a repair garage on one acre, to me, that's a very, very small lot. Generally, when we saw these things, they were coming on five-acre lots, six-acre lots. They had a lot of room between them and the neighbors. Here, you're right up against, you know, houses just 30, 40, 50 feet away. Okay. So I don't think it's going to be too harmonious with that neighborhood. So I'm not supportive of it. I appreciate he wants a second chance. Perhaps a better route would be going to look for a garage to be, too, and going that route rather than a small residential lot. All right. So we've got a motion with several addendums. I will second Supervisor Aikens' motion. Thank you. All right. Mr. Pearson, you got that all documented? The additional conditions? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Just one clarification. Mr. Aikens, were you seeking confirmation from the applicant on the conditions that they would work for him? The way you worded it, I just wanted to make sure you weren't looking for a response from him. Well, this is a wasted exercise if he doesn't do it. So and I'll make a motion at the next meeting to approve the motion. Okay. So I'm going to move it to the next meeting. Okay. So I'm going to move it to the next meeting. Okay. So I'm going to move it to the next meeting. Okay. So I'm going to move it to the next meeting. Okay. I'll stand by at the end. Okay. Mm-hmm. Well, this is a wasted exercise if he doesn't do it. So and I'll make a motion at the next meeting to revoke it if he doesn't do it. So that's up to him. Okay. And then everything is on top of the staff recommended conditions, right? Yes, correct. Thank you. All right. So we got a motion with the conditions listed. On top of it with the staffs. We got a second. So Supervisor Grlove, Vermont. Aye. Supervisor Aikens? Aye. Leero aye by a vice chair wells Oh supervisor Warren door supervisor oats no chair votes now the ayes have it is approved all right ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code thank you mr. chairman members of the board thank you grabbing the mouse this is a proposal to amend chapter 165 of the zoning ordinance for the minimum residential separation buffer requirement as it relates to multifamily buildings 35 feet in height or less this amendment was initiated by the board of Supervisory Board of the City of New York and the sl gets a limits of 30 pic items directly across below so that under no championships are required 38 If any Supervisors at the request of a developer the the RP district standard section has last modified and amended in 2017 which reduced the separation between townhouses and multifamily dwellings the current zoning ordinance requires development with different housing types to provide a residential separation separation buffer the intent is to adequately buffer different housing types from The current ordinance, current standard provides for five housing types that require separation from one another. The first column lists the housing types as the proposed development, and it is also identified numerically. The remaining columns to your right is the required buffer based on the existing adjoining housing type. The number headings of the adjoining development columns correlate to the housing number listed in the first column. Similar housing types require no buffer, which was represented by a dash. So, for example, a townhouse proposed versus a townhouse on the adjoining has a dash and requires no separation. When a multifamily dwelling is placed adjacent to an existing single family, zero lot line development. Housing type number two, a category C buffer is required. The zoning ordinance currently has three categories of buffer, category A, category B, and category C, as shown in column one. Each buffer has an inactive distance and an active distance, columns two and three, providing a total combined distance of separation measured at the property line shown in the totals column. The total distance changes. The total distance is measured at the density of the screening, either a full screen, a landscape screen, or no screen, as seen in the last column. And as you can see, the buffer requirement for a designer would have three options to provide for an A, or a B, or a C. The intent is that the less the distance, the greater the screening. This is an image that represents a residential separation buffer type C full screen. The difference between a full screen and a landscape screen is primarily the linear distance. A full screen has the added screening component of a six foot tall opaque element, typically a board on board fence, two rows of evergreens, or a six foot tall earthen berm, as shown as G in the photo. The landscape element, which is required in both the landscape and the full screen, is the 10 foot wide area of plantings labeled item E in the photo. A full screen provides SNstones in the areas of large wilderness 잠ר, BO XTRZA-004, The full screen provides for the densest screening with a minimal amount of distance. This amendment proposes to remove the distinction between age-restricted and non-age-restricted multifamily structures. Multifamily structures as a whole is then separated into two separate categories based on the height of the structure, so multifamily and garden apartments greater than 35 feet remain unchanged.eshed rejoücke sean jim Claude his team voices ef- Cafe Thor View Landscape Cats and Landscape Herman cuandolyido at también .512 1740 EJF- Cross the Chinacey GZ Sh mobilizing allладamos aastsatriadas all around the Environmental Cleanup lijそう temos US eakás queh comunque resultadoDOs ele está темelada àew marta tomo de 3.50 kds. err euco taom áp precedente. feet will allow a smaller buffer when placed adjacent to single family dwellings, single family zero lot, small lot, or townhouses. The graphic image of a type C full buffer, which is the current requirement showing the 100 foot linear distance, and a category B buffer, again, reduces the distance down from 100 feet to 50 feet. This visual representation is category A buffer, showing the required 25 feet, which is proposed for the townhouse housing type. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on May 6th and recommended denial. Following a public hearing, staff is seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors for this ordinance amendment. Staff is available to answer any questions. Thank you. Any questions? Supervisor out. Yeah, we need a recommendation. So this Planning Commission, we were looking at having a comprehensive look at all the different housing types, and it seems like this just came back for one particular development instead, which is not what we were looking for. Is that what the Planning Commission concluded as well? Is that the reason for their denial? That's correct. The Planning Commission thought that it would be a whole, as a whole change versus one singular item. All right. So really, we're not getting back what we asked for. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes, Mr. Chair. Can you explain again the difference between inactive and inactive distances, please? So the inactive is an area within that distance that nothing is permitted. And then the active, no structures are permitted, but you can have parking. And similar uses. Okay. Thank you. Does that answer your question? Okay. Any additional questions? Thank you, ma'am. Okay. This is a public hearing. Madam Clerk. We do have several signed up. All right. Helen Hatfield. Good evening, and thank you for allowing me to speak tonight. I would like to ask that you listen carefully to those of us who have... Ms. Happy, I'm going to interrupt you, and it's my fault. I should have said everybody, come up and state your name and your magisterial district for us, please. Okay. I forgot to say my name. That was me. Helen Hatfield, and I'm from Back Creek District. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you very much. I would like to ask that you listen carefully to those of us who object to the variance permitting Klein Manor to greatly reduce the buffer surrounding their proposed... Okay. ...project. The bottom line is that they designed an apartment complex with parking spots that is too large for the property area on which they plan to build the building. I lived previously in a new residential community in Frederick County where there were no sidewalks, streets that were too narrow for a fire truck to pass a parked car, and houses so close together that a typical riding mower would have difficulty going between them. That seems to be the norm for many of the communities that are now being... ...constructed in Frederick County. So I moved to Woodbrook Village where there are sidewalks, wider streets, surrounding woods, and open spaces. Now it is proposed that an apartment complex be allowed to be built within 30 feet of our properties, cutting down trees, having a road surrounding the apartment building that comes right along a suggested fence and tree line, bringing noise, bright lights, and a building that would tower over the homes near it. Additionally, it will create even more space for the apartment complex to be built. So I moved to Woodbrook Village, but there is more than enough space... ...for more congestion on Route 11 Valley Pike. I invite each of you to come out to out some day before you go to work at lunchtime or directly after work when employees of Rubbermaid, Trex, and the Bottling Company are moving about and try to get out of Opec Road onto Route 11. Turning left is impossible. We have asked the county to help with this problem for years to no avail. Now Clive Minor wants to add to the congestion by having more residents in their homes and having more people living on their farm than they do now. by having more residents enter Valley Pike into this chaotic situation. I do not even think those proposed to live in Klein Manor would be happy to be trying to do this themselves. The current buffer requirements were put in place for good reasons for us and for the residents of Frederick County in general. Please do not change them. Having little space between Klein Manor and Woodbrook Village would change the environment of a wonderful community of senior citizens who treasure their quality of life, the space, the quiet, and the reasons they choose to live there. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Mary Margaret Barb. Hello. My name is Mary Margaret Barb. I live and own a home in the Back Creek District. I'm here to address the proposed changes to the county separation buffer. My name is Laura and now we are discussed. The proposed improvements across the County양 County, including C Noah County at the end ofearly and playing away from people<|cy|> vorbei, are an infectious disease. The recommended changes would Visa nous a-항 uncomfortably close to one-story single-family homes. Under these circumstances, even a level C buffer is not enough to protect the residents in those one-story homes from negative impacts. The larger the footprint of such an apartment complex, the more negative the impact would be. The lack of county regulations addressing such a situation leaves these small homes vulnerable. Additional regulations increasing separation buffers based on the height of neighboring homes are needed. Moreover, I was disappointed to see the recommendation to remove the age-restricted multifamily category. Age restricted and non-age restricted communities are notably different. Leaving the age-restricted multifamily category in place and adding an additional restricted single-family category would permit the county to take those differences into account. Communities of one-story age-restricted homes and those of two-story family homes with children have differing needs. Each should have those needs accounted for equally. A community of two-story family homes with children is significantly different from a large busy apartment complex. The differences between a community of one-story age-restricted homes and that same rental apartment complex are even more dramatic. Separate development categories will permit the county to address those differences. Again, I thank planning and zoning staff for recognizing that different housing types deserve to have their privacy protected and respectfully encourage staff to do a more comprehensive review with attention to the concerns I have highlighted. As you do so, please consider would you be concerned by the prospect of a large six-story rental complex being built right next to your one-story home? And I ask the Board of Supervisors to reject the proposed buffer changes in their current form. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you, Mayor. Abby Lisk. Hi. Good evening. I'm Abby Lisk from the Bat Creek district and I'm here as a Frederick County citizen. I'm also the community manager for Woodbrook Village. You all may recall that there was a buffer variance request to build Klein Manor which was an apartment complex right on top of Woodbrook Village. During the developer's talk, he kind of mentioned that well if I can't get my buffer variance, I can go to the county and ask for an ordinance amendment. Four months later, here we are. I know that everybody is looking at this as a proposal for this one project, and it's hard not to since they are the developer who has pushed through this amendment. We are aware the county was going to need to do this to start with, but they're pushing it ahead much faster and not as well thought out, in our opinion, and I believe the DRCC committee would agree, and I believe the planning commission would agree that we're moving a little quickly, and that is of concern to the residents of the county. We've moved here. We're expecting a certain environment, and we don't want that changed without thoughtful consideration. I had a wonderful little talk outlined here, but a couple people have said some things that kind of thrown me off. Jason Akins made a reference with the automotive shop that, you know, one acre is really not that much for an automotive shop. You'd think more along five acres. Well, five acres is where they're talking about building an apartment complex within a hundred feet of a 55 and over zero lot line community. I'm not good with measurements, but I don't know what one end of this building is to the other end of this building, but I'm suspecting that the building is going to be a lot smaller than the other one. I'm not sure I'm in a position to say that, but I do think it's something that's going to be a lot smaller than the other two. I think we're seeing that it's awfully close to the buffer variance between these two communities. This amendment does away with an age-restricted community, of which there are quite a few in Winchester. We should actually be encouraging them to come to Winchester. We still get our tax dollars. We don't have to pay for schools. We were voted one of the top community cities to retire to. I don't see why we need to change the way we live. We have to focus on what we want, and I don't think it's a building on top of a building. So I'm asking you, I'm pleading with you to please say no to this ordinance amendment. We don't need our houses built on top of each other, and we don't need to eliminate an age-restricted community. I'm sure I've forgotten some really important comments here. Oh, I did have one. Mr. Marquette at the Planning Commission made a great comment. He said, Mr. Marquette at the Planning Commission made a great comment. He said, Mr. Marquette at the Planning Commission made a great comment. He said, it would be different if the apartment complex was there, and we built homes around them, and then they got a choice. This way, we don't have a choice. Please protect our communities. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Susan, is it Emmert? First of all, I'd like to thank all of you for your willingness to serve as our representatives for the County of Frederick, Virginia. Thank you, ma'am. And I would just like to read when I first looked at... Give me your name and magisterial district. Pardon me? Your name and magisterial district. Okay. This is... This is my first time. No, no, no. That's fine. Okay. This is Susan Emmert, and I live in the Shawnee District. Oh, thank you. Okay. Bob Lero is our representative. Thank you, ma'am. Yes. When I looked up zoning for the Frederick County, because my knowledge of it was basically nothing, the first line is, zoning in Frederick County is intended to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the orderly development of the county. And I think for a homeowner, anyone living in Frederick County, these are important things, especially when they have a home that they love and a neighborhood that they love. And if we alter the buffer zones between different types of housing or industries, we're going to have to have a lot of different things. So I think this is a great opportunity to talk about this. Thank you. Thank you. But I think, if the housing was to be limited to just housing or industry or whatever, I think it would be a great detriment to this. And that's really all I have to say, and thank you again for serving on this. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. Richard Schoppet. Thank you. I'm Richard Schoppet, a similar district. And last, speakers, I rise in objection to any changes to buffer zones for all the reasons reasons that have already been stated. I won't go through all that again. You've had enough time on this already. And I just wanted to say that the Planning Commission, I think, got it right this time. Thank you very much. Thanks, sir. That's the end of the list. Madam Clerk, thank you very much. I'm going to give you a chance now. Anyone that would like to speak for or against, please come forward. State your name and magisterial district, sir, please. Yes, sir. I'm Scott Dawson. I'm actually a resident of the city. But I wanted to make some point on this particular project. Klein Manor is the one that keeps being brought up as the developer that's kind of pushing this project. And there were some things that were said that are clearly not factual. This building would not be 30 feet from anybody's property line, from anybody's building. I heard it would be right on top of with the active buffer between the Woodbrook Village that they would have to put in and the right-of-way that is already built in, that is fully treed, it would be over 100 feet from any building to Woodbrook Village. That doesn't count their backyards, just from their property line. This, I just want to remind you that Klein Manor was a project that was brought in front of this board in January of last year. You voted unanimously to give a small tax credit to this developer because she is building houses. She is a female developer that is building housing that is specifically designed to be matched with the salaries of law enforcement officers and with teachers. That's what this project is about. It's about finding housing for those types of uses. It is a Virginia state-funded program that is allowing this to happen so that they can get funding, so they can build projects that are very high quality, that was housing for, designed specifically for law enforcement and for educators. I went to the planning commission when they talked about this and voted against it and I really felt that a lot of the communication was about, hey, we're already changing the planning and zoning. We're changing these things. We're putting in new charts. We're fixing this. Let's just do this when we do that. That's 18 months from now. That's something we can't just not do business in the county for 18 months because there's some change that's going to happen in the future. I think they'll probably continue to do business until the day you hit the button on that change in the zoning. Again, thank you all for letting me address you. I hope you don't mind a city resident standing up here. You won't throw me any bad signs. Thank you all. Thanks, sir. Anybody else that would like to speak for or against? Alright, I'll close the public hearing. Lord, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, like I said earlier, when we sent this out, we asked for a comprehensive look at all the buffers in the area. Buffers change over the years. Sometimes they get bigger, sometimes they get smaller. In this case, it seemed to come back tailored for one particular instance. And I'm not in favor of that. So, to me, what's presented for us tonight is not what we asked for. I would recommend a denial. Okay, we've got a motion for denial of ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code. Do I have a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. Alright, I've got a motion and I've got a second. Any discussion before we vote? I'm with Gary relative to the fact that this seems very property specific and that's not where we were going before. If we get something to this board that is property specific, then I would want a detailed analysis of that project. That's not what we have here. We're getting different facts from the audience and so I don't feel comfortable for two reasons. One, to Gary's point, and then also if this is a point that's not going to be in the board, then I'm going to vote for it. I don't feel comfortable for two reasons. One, because this is a project specific. I need all the facts and I don't feel like I have the facts. Alright, anybody else? Okay. Supervisor Oates. Aye. This is a vote for aye is for denial. Supervisor Warndorff. Aye. Vice Chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Lierop. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Gouverment. Aye. And the chair votes aye. Okay. Back to the drawing board on that one. Next, we have the draft update of the 2026-27 Frederick County Interstate Primary and Secondary Road. Mr. Bednar. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the annual update of the Interstate Primary and Secondary Road Plans. The Interstate and Primary Road Plans are required. The Secondary Road Plan is optional but does require public hearing and for that, the county has for several years just included all three of these in the same document and same item. Going first into the Interstate Road Improvement Plan, the primary changes to this are verbiage changes to align with the state and then also advancing exits 310 and 313 in priority to reflect the fact that they've now been funded. For the Primary Road Improvement Plan, there are no current changes being proposed. However, we do anticipate multiple changes being produced from the comprehensive plan study. For the secondary roads, the major road improvement project, Redbud Road Relignment is carryover. This slide will likely be disappearing once this project is completed. Since this project has been adopted, the funding that the state has has shifted over to the VDOT Smart Scale Program. So these projects once completed will disappear from the plan. And then for the non-hard-serviced road improvement projects, these are all secondary roads. The only change for this is the Grace Church Road has been promoted from the unscheduled roads. Leading into that, roads numbers 15 and 16, Veterans Road and Shady Creek Road have been added to the unscheduled non-hard-serviced road improvement projects and that is due to citizen petition. The Transportation Committee reviewed and recommended approval of this item at their April 27th, 2026 meeting and then the Planning Commission held a public hearing and recommended approval and a Tento motion on June 3rd. This item is presented to you all now as a public hearing following which staff is seeking a decision. At this point, staff are available for any questions. Thank you, sir. Any questions? Vice Chair. Exit 313. Yes, sir. You said there was no changes there? Exit 313 was advanced in priority to reflect its being funded. Okay. So it went from the non-funded to the funded? Yes, sir. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else have any questions? Okay. Thank you, Ms. Bittner. Thank you. All right. This is a public hearing. No one has signed up. Thank you, Madam Clerk. Is there anyone that wants to speak for or against this? Not seeing anybody running up here, so we'll close the public hearing. Board, how would you like to handle this? I'll move for approval. All right. We have a motion to approve. Second. Second. Second. Second? Second. Second? Second? Second. Second? Second? Second. Second? Second? Second? Any discussion? All righty. Supervisor Grouvelmont? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Lieller? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Warndorf? Aye. Supervisor Oates? Aye. And Chair Boatz? Aye. Okay. And I want to say something about this. Staff spent a lot of time on working on this plan, and so we appreciate Mr. Pearce and all that you've done. all that your team does for us. Thank you. Okay. No planning, commission, business, other board liaison reports. Do we have any? Mr. Chair. Yes. Step two, one with the EDA. We're hoping to have interviews within the next 30 days for a new EDA director. So that ad is out there and currently being advertised. Also, with the tourism department, just continue to remain impressed with the operations. I know there's a little bit of angst or concern about the change with the fiscal agent. But I just reassure the team that we'll get through it. That's why we've gotten the extra month to make sure that we do this the right way. But I do feel that these changes will be good for the county. Additionally, I'm hoping that in the next 60 days that there can be a small committee formed by the board of supervisors and hopefully city council members from the city to talk about tourism and those priorities to make sure that those priorities, that everybody's in alignment between the city and the county in that regard. Lastly, I just want to recognize Julie Schaefer for her leadership as the chair for the tourism board because her tenure is wrapping up soon. Excellent. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? Supervisor Warner. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, the Conservation Easement Authority met on May 28th. And at that meeting, the chairman talked about interest by another citizen. And so there was some general discussion about expanding the authority. Okay. It was suggested then to look at subcommittees if you wanted to involve some additional people. And so they did have some talk about that. Also, in improving communications about land preservation and the Conservation Easement Authority, there's a member working on map overlays with the GIS department. For someone that... You just work it out to them and give them a Everywhere logo on Deck and it means you can just kind of South lotp abundant Kurzges です group and narrow it down to the Give us a useful opportunity and get some of your contributions into the information. Okay. This week, I was supervising in a study a public office session for desde planning staff was there with the tent canopy with the Frederick County seal on it and providing information and conservation easement members were there as well. So with that, there is a focus on communication, trying to educate our citizenry about conservation easement and what that's about. So with that, Mr. Chairman, that concludes my report on the May 28th conservation easement meeting. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. I've been meeting with the fire chiefs and the architects. And the planners on Station 22, Fire Station 22, if you're not familiar where that is going to be, it's in behind the Walmart off of Tasca Road. There's a sign out there. If you drive by, you'll see it. Things are moving ahead. I feel like that everyone's working very, very hard to make sure that we get a great fire station at a very reasonable cost. And we're on schedule. So I'm looking forward next couple of a year or so of having a new fire station to serve Frederick County. Thank you very much. Anybody else? Well, I'm going to report the board gave direction for Vice Chair and I to meet with the city and start conversations about how can we do a better job collaborating, working together. We had that meeting. Clark County was part of it. And we had a very good discussion looking at different areas that we could focus on. And I think that's what we're going to do. And I think that's what we're going to do. Our next step is, next month we are going to be setting up a committee to go very specifically into our first endeavor of what we should be doing. But it was a great discussion. There's absolute appetite with the council of the city and the board here to work together. And so I just wanted to report back that we are moving forward and having these conversations. Okay. That takes care of liaison. That takes care of liaison. Reports. Citizens' comments. Madam Clerk. Vicki Michaels. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Vicki Michaels and I live in the Stonewall District. It might seem a little odd what I want to talk about tonight. But I just wanted to speak on the exceptional job our planning commission has demonstrated within a high-stakes environment and to say thank you to them. Last week, this room was filled to overcapacity with 265 within this room and 48 in the lobby. Yet with Wyatt's calm, organized demeanor and the board's understanding and respect for the constituents, it worked. 47 people expressed their heartfelt concerns and provided their opinions and facts. Requesting the denial of rezoning 220 acres of rural land for the purposes of a technology park. Which I have to say is a much less ominous description than what it is a data center. There were times when the crowd started to become enthusiastic. But the chairman kindly brought the meeting back into focus. One person spoke for the rezoning and was not tarred and feathered afterwards. The planning commission are your selected advisors. They are not elected. Yet they made the people they represent feel heard. Valued and respected. All but two of you were elected to represent your constituents. The planning commission meetings maintained decorum because of respect from all parties. They listened. They did their due diligence. And they voted to deny the request to rezone rural lands. I'm asking you to trust the people that you appointed. And listen to what they have heard and done. They chose not to pave paradise and put up a data center. They chose to build rural land that cannot be gotten back. So long after that shiny new pipe dream has stolen our water and destroyed farmland. And those empty outdated AI centers are gone. What will remain of the beautiful Shenandoah Valley? What we do today is determining what the future will be. Please emulate the planning commission. Ask the questions. Listen to your constituents. And please do not pave paradise and put up a data center. Thank you. Thank you. Brian Nury. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Brian Nury, resident of the Opecan District. When the public has grievances, even just curiosity about how the government proceeds, the first and usually the most easy step is to attend a public meeting. This is even provided for in Virginia Code under 2.2-3700, where it states that the government ensures that the people of the country, the people of the Commonwealth, among other rights, free entry into meetings of public bodies where the business of the people is being conducted, and to afford any opportunity to witness the operations of government. This, however, was not in effect at our jail board meetings. And it hasn't been for some time. On May 28th, a group of us tried to attend both of the meetings. However, access to it was extremely difficult. We were told that we're only allowed to be 10 participants. We had to surrender our phones, pens, pads, etc. And then we were locked in to the gym of the juvenile detention center. I've asked several members of these boards if this was a requirement that we have the meetings at the jails. Not a single statutory reason existed. Couldn't even find one in the county codes. And being that this is a requirement, and being that these boards not only meet three to four times a year, I understand that it would be a lot in the way, it wouldn't be much in the way of agendas or minutes that exist. However, in one case, the minutes of the juvenile detention center took over two months of constant emailing to the director before we got a copy of the drafted minutes, which under 2.2 section 3707 subsection I are required to be public information. At all times. If you haven't figured out, 22.2 is the FOIA act. And as we were not permitted to even carry in pencils or pads, none of us could make notes on the meeting, even if the items were as non-controversial as we have to paint the halls and we need to buy a new computer server. However, here's where the problem is. 2.2 section 3707 subsection H states that the public shall be allowed to record any meetings without hindering or interrupting the meeting. I can only think this is an oversight from the committee because this has been in effect since 1995. But then the second section was more interesting. No public body shall conduct a meeting required to be open in any building or facility where recording devices are prohibited. This has been enacted since 2010. There is no real reason why these boards need to meet. Semi-secretly at the jails. We have plenty of facilities here. So I ask this board to reconsider the location of both of the jail boards. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Teresa Ostertag. Name, master. I'm sorry. Hi. Hi. My name is Teresa Ostertag. I'm from Back Creek. Let's talk about energy off topic of what you're talking about today. 85 data centers that are built already cannot be plugged in because the grid cannot currently support them. In Lake Tahoe, California, 50,000 residents were told by their electric company, NV Energy, that in one year they would have to find another power supplier. Why? A data center needs that energy. In Coweta, Georgia, Georgia Power, a very powerful company, is using eminent domain to take over 30 homes, and also they are taking over 300 homeowners land. They aren't even being paid what it's worth. This is just one data center alone that caused this. In Virginia, Dominion and NextEra Energy have merged. From what I hear, NextEra is a dirty company with lawsuits across the country, allegedly. By allowing data centers to enter our world, you are creating a perfect storm. Big money, big tech wants in. They make promises, but you cannot protect us from eminent domain, respiratory illnesses, cancer, home depreciation, or our electric bills doubling. What can you do? This is what you can do. You can change the EDA strategy, which is telling everyone we want to be like Loudoun County over here. The right string of words guiding us to the right direction. The right string of words guiding us away from what we are, to what we don't want to be. What you can do is change the comprehensive plan. These are things that must be done to protect the residents. I'm beginning to think the county wants to run like a business, using certain pieces of the business to bring in other pieces, using the residents as a support system, using their land, their water, their electric bills as a shoulder these data centers need to lean on. The country is upside down right now with these projects coming in fast and hot. It's up to you to take the steps to make the residents feel safe. Vote no on rezoning land to industrial or light industrial. The game is it gets rezoned and then later they come back. And they want to build a data center. Legally, you can say you didn't change the zoning to become a data center, but that change allows them to begin the process on better footing. They are proud of their work. They are playing the game, only presenting information that they are legally required to. Back to what you can do. Vote no to rezone any land industrial or light industrial until there can be some huge changes to the comprehensive plan that can stop the shady sidestepping. Thank you for listening. Thank you, ma'am. Julie Curd. Julie Curd, Back Creek District. Teresa and Vicki did such a great job that I have just a little bit in that good news. I'd like to reference the Winchester Star survey that came out in the paper the other day. And it's very concerning to me because Houston, we've got a problem. And the problem that I saw there glaring bigger than anything else, is that we have a problem. And that's the problem. And the problem is that we have a problem. And the problem is that we have a problem. And we've got a big whopping 5.9% yes. It's all because of these data centers. You all know that. This has got to stop. If you all hadn't rezoned that property on Middle Road and Apple Valley Road just simply two years ago, we wouldn't be in this mess. We've got to take every opportunity from this moment forward to restore the faith of the people in their county government. I don't want to hear about, I'm making the best decision for the county. Well, you know what? Without the people, you don't have a county. We the people are the county. We want you to be on our side for a change. And that needs to start now. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. David O'Neill. Name and Magisterial District, sir. Say again? Your name and your Magisterial District. David O'Neill. I'm a resident of Gainesboro District. Thanks, sir. I'm a Chief Enterprise Architect. And I have a paper here from a couple of colleagues out of Texas and Sweden. We did a simulation of the 2021 Texas power grid failure. This simulation was presented to a couple of international bodies in Reston in 2022. And the result of the simulation is that the problems were not so much technical as they were bureaucratic. Kind of like the decision making behind the power grid. Decision making behind the O-ring in the space shuttle incident in January of 86. So the simulation showed that there were conflicting incentives for the grid. And while they were selling electricity outside of the state, they had a major internal regional failure. This lasted for four days. They cut service to over a million customers. They destroyed not just the power grid. They destroyed not damaged but destroyed several hundred businesses. And about 300 people were killed as a result of that incident. So you might then kind of ask yourself, like, have we learned from that? There's still a lot of ongoing issues with that grid failure. But here locally in January, our own grid provider called PJM Interconnection, very large organization. They narrowly avoided widespread rolling blackouts during winter storm fern by using unprecedented emergency powers to force data centers off the shared electric grid. The crisis highlighted the mounting strain that the AI data center boom is placing on regional infrastructure and fearing that a breakdown of power plants under cold stress would trigger an immediate capacity shortage. PJM activated severe grid management protocols. Number one, PJM issued emergency energy emergency alert level one and MaxGen orders. What these did was it ordered all the available power plants to maximize their power output, including bypassing certain environmental and air quality limits set by the EPA and others. Number two, federal Section 233 of the EPA, which was a very large, very large organization, was able to deploy a number of power plants to the grid. This was a very large number. It was a very large number. The next step was to go to CEE intervention. The on January 26th, the Federal Department of Energy issued an extraordinary emergency order under the Federal Power Act. This gave PJM the immediate legal authority to curtail power to the AI data centers and large industrial customers, forcing them to go on their backup generator systems. So by shifting these massive power consuming facilities. Off the grid, it avoided problems. So I'm just asking the board if you could proactively work with state, regional and federal authorities to help prevent such a problem in the future. Thanks, sir. Thank you. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Is there anyone that would like to come speak? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Not sure. I'm sorry. He's just droughtshitting. Yes, sir. No, Joe is leaving. He's just... Oh, he's leaving? Okay. Yes. All right. Okay, then. I'll close the citizens' comments portion now. Board of supervisor comments. Are there any? Look to my right. I'll look to my left. Yes, sir. I've got a few. one, I wanted to bring to everybody's attention about the county's request to the SEC that it wanted to be informed in all matters relative to the moral, hysterical and institutional change to the moral high voltage transmission lines to include public hearings. Additionally, yesterday there was some information that was sent out concerning another transmission line from Valley Link. Valley Link's done a really good job trying to keep the board abreast of things that are happening. These two things are transpiring in Gainesville, essentially. And so I want to make sure that the residents of Gainesville are aware of an informational event on June 29th from 4 to 7.30 at Jameswood High School. That is about from the Valley Link transmission line. I know this meeting is very high level to begin with at this point in time, but I felt it was important to share for anybody that was interested in attending. Both of these transmission lines could potentially negative impact residents of Gainesville, and it's unfortunate. So it's important that we are informed. It's kind of a chicken or the egg scenario. We all want our power to stay on. We don't want brownouts. We want all these different things. But that means we also have to invest in the infrastructure as well. So it's important that we stay abreast. The other thing I wanted to bring up, Mr. Chairman, is that there is a community event happening in Gainesboro about the comprehensive plan. This coming Tuesday, it's the 16th at 6 o'clock at Bride Family Vendors. Hope. Some members from Gainesboro can attend. Happy to answer any questions. I think staff's attending that as well for that. And that's all I have, Mr. Chairman. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? Okay. I want to talk about next week we have a joint agenda meeting between the Board of Supervisors and the Planning Commission. It's a work session, and we do this annually in June to talk about comprehensive plan amendment applications. There currently are six. They are posted up on our website. I want to note that this comprehensive policy plan amendment process allows property owners and developers to seek modification in the county's adopted comprehensive plan, and that maps and CPV are not rezonings. These are not rezonings. They are just land use planning exercise and other conceptual things. So go up on the website. Take a look. There are active links there. For each one. They are actually posted on the agenda as well, if that's easier for anybody to look at the agenda for next week. Each one has a full link to all of the files. Thank you, Madam Clerk. So I know there were some people concerned, and we want to make sure everything's up there for you to look at and give you a clear idea of what's going on here in the county. Okay? So with that, Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman. I have another business to go over. I knew we adjourned. All right. We're adjourned, folks. Are things working, and we'll get back to you when we definitely start. I'm going to go ahead and remanage. We've had some good schedules coming in. Some of it isn't back there yet. Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
