Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-04-09
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=279
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now to item four, adoption of the agenda. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to adopt the agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion on the agenda? Hearing none, we'll move to a voice vote. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We have an agenda. Item five, citizen comments. Ms. Phillips. No one has signed the motion. No one has signed the motion. up for the first period. If there's anyone here who'd like to speak about anything on our agenda except for items that are a public hearing, it's better to wait till that public hearing item comes up when we're considering that item. But anything else on the agenda if you'd like to speak please come forward. Hearing no one, I will close citizen comments. Consent agenda. Board, how would you like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve the consent agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? The consent agenda involves various reports and minor items that are all posted online for the public to see. We will have to do a roll call vote. There are two things to note. One is we have included in the consent agenda a decision to cancel the second meeting in May. That's because it would fall on the middle of graduation week. Thank you. Thank you. That's because it would fall on the middle of graduation week. Thank you. And there are several supervisors, including myself, who very much want to attend. That would be the night of James Wood's graduation. Also, there's one appropriation item. The treasurer has advanced an appropriation of a little over $48,000. It's a return of taxes paid for all of 2024 from a company that had sold its operations so they deserve most of their year's tax money back. It's people who bought that company have already paid their taxes and caught up. So that's the consent agenda. We need to do this since there's funds involved with the roll call vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye and the consent agenda is approved. Board of Supervisor comments. Do we have any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. So yesterday, Dr. Brian Erskine, who's the school board representative for Redbud, held a town hall meeting. And I just want to commend him and congratulate him on doing that to do an outreach. I think that any elected official should do that type of item. So I appreciate his outreach. And for those of you in Redbud, next time they'll try to even publicize it better. But it's a great opportunity for him and constituents of Redbud to interact. So, Dr. Erskine, good job. Thank you. Thank you. Any other supervisor comments? Vice Chair? Yes, Mr. Chairman. At our last, I believe it was our last meeting, we took up the data center ordinance. And I had asked the question about the date that we had updated our light ordinance, zoning ordinance as it relates to lighting. And Mr. Pearson, our director, has reviewed. It looks like it dates back to 2007. So with the consensus of the board. Mr. Pearson said his department would update that, that we should probably be looking at our best management practices and making sure that we are up to date as much as possible. And I know that I've had concerns brought to me from citizens in Stonewall regarding lighting issues. So I think it would be a great opportunity for us to take a look at that if there is a consensus among the board that we could move that forward. I'm certainly in favor of looking at that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Consensus? Does everyone agree with? reviewing the outdoor lighting ordinances in the county, Supervisor Wells? I see nodding heads. Yes, I think. Please take that as direction. Thank you. Mr. Pearson, thank you. Any other supervisor comments? Hearing none, I will close supervisor comments. Item 8, County Officials. 8A, this is adoption of the fiscal year 2025-26 budget and appropriations and setting of the 2025 tax rates. We have already held a public hearing on this matter, so there's no public comment now at this point in the agenda. We have published, I believe, right, Mr. Ballhofer, the draft agenda as well as posting it on our, I'm sorry, the draft budget as well as posting it on our website. So that's the item up for discussion and adoption today. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion that we adopt the resolution as presented in our board packet and what has been advertised for fiscal year 2025-26 budget and the appropriation and the setting of the 2025 tax rates. As you all know, the only changes in the tax rates first of all was the real estate tax rate going from 51 cents per hundred to 48 cents. As advertised and also the sanitary landfill fees being proposed, the new rates going for commercial industrial construction demolition debris, municipal solid waste, municipal sludge, miscellaneous rubble debris, all of those proposed rates were in the advertisement as well. So they would also be included in this resolution. So that is your motion. Yes, sir. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Discussion of the budget. Anyone? Discussion of the budget motion. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. I'll make some comments then. We've spent the last three or four months going through a budget situation. My concerns on the budget are as follows. This county needs to raise revenue. The population increase far exceeds the economic growth that's occurring in the county. So it's good for people to come into this county. It's good for businesses to come into the county. But the taxes that businesses bring into the county are not great enough to offset the population growth. So how do we address that problem? I've raised this issue before, and I'm just going to raise it again for the record. This is the third year in a row in which we've had a budgeted deficit. And by that, we have expected expenditures greater than expected revenue. And the difference is being paid for by money from the capital fund. The capital fund is set up for a one-time expense for schools, fire stations, et cetera. That's the purpose for the fund. And we've saved money over the years to do that. Unfortunately, in the last three years, we're using that money for operational expenses, meaning annual ongoing expenses. And this year, that deficit is $14.95 million. In FY24, this budget had a, this county had a budget of $14.95 million. And this budget has a budget of $239 million. In FY25, it's $256 million. The expected budget expenditures this year are $278 million. And if you include the money for fire and rescue, it would be up to $282 million. Some people have said, let economic growth deal with the issue. The Economic Development Authority administration has said that we have about $14.5 million of new business growth for the last three years. That's what's coming into this, this, this year. And we're going to have to do a lot of work to get that budget, and that's already included in this budget. In the next three years, we expect to have $400,000 in FY26, $105,000 in FY27, about $933,000 in FY28, totaling about $1.4 million. That does not close the gap between the $15 million planned budget deficits that we're running and the expenditures or the revenue raised. So the question is, how do you solve the problem? In my opinion, this county is well run. 1% of $288 million is $2.8 million. I sat down there at the budget workshops, and I've said, if anyone can show me how to save money, please do so. We've had people come up to this podium and say, please cut the budget. But no one has come up with specifics. And so if you don't have specifics, the rhetoric is not helpful. If you want to go and cut, $15 million, you'd have to cut 30 policemen, 30 fire and rescue, get rid of parks and rec, get rid of the convenience centers. And even then, you don't approach it. So that's what we're looking at. If you really feel that way, come up with a proposal. But that's not occurring. The other issues that I've raised have been impact fees. And I know that takes the General Assembly to change it. But this board could go to the governor and say, this is important. And if collectively we're all doing something, we would have an opportunity to do something. The board has not done that. But impact fees are not something that we're going to do. impact fees are not something that we're going to do. But impact fees are not something that we're going to do. So impact fees would go and cover the cost of new people moving in and the cost they bring to the county. In San Diego County, California, if you move to San Diego County today, you will pay a higher real estate tax than the person that lives next door to you that's been there all his life. And the reason is that San Diego says you're bringing an additional expense to the county. Therefore, we will go and incorporate the cost of that expense into the real estate tax you pay, even though you may be in identical houses. We talked about a 1% sales tax. The General Assembly passed it, the governor vetoed it, and apparently there are not enough votes to override. But that tax on all expenses other than meals, or purchases other than meals and other than medicine, raises about $20 million. That's a significant amount of money. And I would strongly support that because the bill said that you, the voters, would have a referendum. You get to vote on it. Do you like it or do you not like it in relationship to all other taxes? And so giving you the opportunity to have a vote on that, I thought, made good sense. But this board chose not to go and advocate for that. You could have a meals tax. This was raised a few years ago. In Winchester City, the meals tax is $0.06 and ours is $0.04. If you go and raise the meals tax by $0.02, you bring in $3.8 million. For every penny in the real estate tax, that also brings in $1.8 million. So you have essentially the same thing. So we're going to talk tonight about a $0.48 real estate tax. So we're going to talk tonight about a $0.48 real estate tax. So we're going to talk tonight about a $0.48 real estate tax. If it were $0.46 and a meals tax, you'd have the same revenue. But a meals tax is an arbitrary decision. You can choose to go out or not to go out for dinner. A real estate tax is a mandatory decision. You don't have a choice. You either pay or lose your house. So I like a meals tax over a real estate tax if I had to choose, simply because it's arbitrary versus mandatory. You can have taxes on alcohol. You can have taxes on tobacco. Just because you smoke or drink, in my opinion, you shouldn't be taxed, but that's it. And then you have a real estate tax. Real estate taxes are mandatory. The tax is on unrealized gain on your house. I can't sell my extra bedroom to pay the tax. The tax increase is onerous on people that are retired and don't have fixed income or have fixed income and don't have cost of living adjustments as you do if you're working. And in some cases, I've had people say to me, Blaine, what do I pay for, your real estate taxes or my medicine? I've had that multiple times when I've been in red board. Red board. I've had that multiple times when I've been in red board. Red board. So I've laid out these options to try to solve a problem, and unfortunately, this board, or at least the majority of them, have not chosen to engage on this issue. So I have a problem with this budget, and I'll probably not be supporting it as is. If it fails, then we can talk about other options, but I would just like to see changes on this before I would vote yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any other discussion? So I'd like to respond in the spirit of Supervisor Dunn's comments and throw out an idea. I'll take it. Okay. So I'll take a motion to approve the bill, and then I'll make a motion. The idea is I've heard from a number of people that they're upset that their property tax bills will go up. Despite us already committing to lower the rate from 51 cents to 48 cents, that's only removing about a quarter or so of the increase that they're facing due to the new assessments. And then there's the concern that Supervisor Dunn has expressed tonight and other nights. That we're eating into our capital fund in order to keep the operational budget going. So I'd like to throw this on the table for the board to consider. We could have the growth across the board of our county government and apply the savings from those positions either to the deficit or to reducing the real property tax rate. In fact, we could apply half of that. In fact, we could apply half of the savings to reducing the tax rate from the advertised and half of the savings leave that money in the capital fund to reduce the deficit. I think that goes part way to addressing Supervisor Dunn's concern. It does reduce some of the new services that the county could provide. It cuts that growth in half. However, it again goes a ways to resolving our operational budget. It's not just about resolving our operational budget being higher than our revenue stream. And we could continue to work on it in subsequent years. So my motion would be to amend the motion on the table to adjust the budget. And we're going to have to do some math with our calculators, Mr. Ballhofer. To have the new positions that we were planning on growing our county government by. I believe that would be 20 new positions for the schools instead of 40. It would be four new firefighters instead of eight. How many deputies were we hiring? I thought it was two, but I'm not sure. Four. Four. Three. Mrs. Schiffler. Mrs. Schiffler, will you confirm, please? We have three. Three. So we'd have to make a decision there to hire one or two. Then we have one position to move to. We have one position for the clerk of the court and one for the commissioner of the revenue. And we'd have to decide between those two positions. Or as an option, hire neither and hire them both next year. So at least we reduce there. And what other new positions do we have? Eight firefighters and one project manager. We've got the project manager. So some of them are even. You can reduce them by half. And then the onesies are the project manager. We've got an odd number. For the sheriff? For the sheriff. And we have one for the commissioner of the revenue and one for clerk of the court. So I guess I would need to decide on that. But I'm throwing that out for discussion purposes. If anyone would like to weigh in before I make a motion to amend. Is this discussion time, Mr. Chairman? We're in discussion on the original motion. So we can have discussion even though I haven't made an added amendment yet. Yes. I'm going to discuss what you're proposing. Is that okay? Yes, indeed. Okay. Mr. Chairman, I'm a fiscal conservative Reagan Republican. And our community has spoken. We're trying to get the firefighters that we need. We've hired over 100 since 2013. We're building a new station. We've been able to put SROs in the schools. Protect our children. Parks and Rec, they've done a good job. Transportation fund, we're putting $7 million a year in. We've been working on this for three months. And at the 11th hour, we're going to cut positions that have been asked by our different constitutional officers and our staff. I don't agree with this at all. I think that the constituents of this county are telling us what they need. And that we need to support the fire and rescue. We need to support sheriff. We need to support public schools. We need to support our staff. So I absolutely think this is not the right thing to do. Thank you, Supervisor Jewell. Any other comments? I'll still make it as a motion in a moment. Supervisor? Mr. Chair, I have some comments. I don't know if it's a comment or a question. When you're discussing the positions, you talked about 20 of the 40 school positions. But that's not the case. I think that's the right thing to do. I think that's the right thing to do. I think it's a good thing. We're going to have to make the school positions. But that's a line-item amendment for the schools. I don't think we have the authority to do that. That's just my opinion on that one. That's a good question, Mr. Balhofer. So aren't we approving the school budget tonight as well? You can approve a dollar amount. How they decide to spend it would be up to them. Right. So thank you. So it would be an adjustment in the dollar amount equivalent to 20 new positions. The idea is to have the rate of our county government growth since we have a deficit and since we have taxes going up. So we would have to come up with a number that's an estimate for that. Maybe Mr. Balhofer can come through and see if there's a number. I'm looking through their presentation to see if there's a number. And if my motion fails, it's fine. I just want to put that on the table. Mr. Chairman, just to clarify, at our last meeting, was it actually Dr. Hummers there, eight positions? These 40 that they requested were all additional. These are not cutting funding. But was it 40 was additional, eight required by mandate? Is that accurate? That is correct. Okay. I just wanted to verify that. And what were those mandated positions? Were they specific? They were English language learner positions. Yeah. So we had 40 positions total. Eight were in there. And as Mr. Balhofer, Mr. Lero mentioned, right now it would be 4.1. And then we would have to go back and look at the other positions. And then we would have to bring it back to our school board to determine how they want to cut the additional money. Yes. Right. Okay. Thank you for that clarification. Mr. Balhofer? Did the additional positions, the amount is $3,152,500. 3.1 million? Yeah, $3,152,000. Mr. Chairman? And that was for 40? That's for the 40. 40 positions, additional positions. Correct. So you're proposing to cut that and then cut the additional positions? I'm proposing to cut that in half. Right. And they would still be under the mandates? They would... They still would be able to... They would still... They have 40 they operated under last year that they were missing. So they can still fill those 40 vacancies. And then they would have money for about 20 instead of 40 new positions on top of that. So their staffing could go up by 60 over what we saw in the public schools last year under my proposal. Mr. Chairman? Supervisor Dunn. So just a couple of things. Number one, I wish we had this discussion during our workshop. We could go into the hall a lot more. So I appreciate you bringing up the items, but it's kind of late. Number two, you could take your numbers here, 3.1 million savings and cutting four firefighters or police, that's about 400,000. You're coming up with a differential of about $3.5 million. Regarding the school budget, all we can do legally as a board is to make sure that we say to the school board, here's X dollars and that's it. You can wish and hope to cut positions, but that is not our job. There's an elected school board that says, this is what we will do with the money. So all we give them is a dollar amount. And then they decide how to spend it. You can make a suggestion as a constituent, but we have no legal say on that. So whatever dollar amounts you give to them, they can do as their elected board sees fit. On the firefighters, I've been on this board for 10 years. I would strongly oppose any reduction in firefighters. We have people that are going to have to make a life-debt decision with two people going into a fire in some of our stations. So if there's a fire, there's a kid trapped in an upstairs bedroom, and you have two people there, they have to make a decision. Do we go in with no support or do we stay out? And that's the reason we're trying to expand this so they have some types of support. So I can't support that at all. The two positions for the two constitutional officers, yes, I can push that off for a year. But that saves us in the neighborhood of a couple hundred thousand dollars, I think. I don't know what their salaries are, but 60,000 plus benefits and another 60,000 plus benefits. You're talking about less than 200,000. And that doesn't even come close to shutting down or to cutting the $15 million deficit that we have. So I appreciate your effort. Thank you. But I just can't support those cuts because I think they're really needed. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I've got a question. Is this motion in response to Supervisor Dunn's? Because in all fairness, this is all last minute for both of you. However, Supervisor Dunn, if we're not balancing our budget during work sessions, it would have been a wonderful time to say we needed to keep it at $15 million. But I didn't hear that from anybody on this board. 48 we agreed upon. So for you not to be in support of this was a little bit of a surprise to me as well. So, Mrs. Lockbridge, you know, I sat back there for three months. You threw some of the good things out. And I've laid out my items. I've twice here put out for this board, even as recently as two weeks ago, proposals. And there was no engagement. I mean, you should have engaged me and said, fine, I like your idea or I don't like your idea. Here's modification. And I said, well, I don't like your idea. I don't like your idea. I don't like your idea. I don't like your idea. I don't like your idea. I don't like your idea. I don't like your idea. You made other views which I have oneだぼages Share and see that achives koala but the Thank you. So to clarify, Supervisor Dunn , didn't make motion. He made comments. Mine will be in the form of a motion. But just to make it clear and keep it . And then if I get a second, there would be a discussion on that and you could make a motion to add a few back in that I had cut. My motion is just to cut fairly, if you want to use that word, equally across the board on new positions. So first clarification, Mr. Ballhofer, you said it was $3.152 million for 40 new school positions, right? Correct. So my proposal, you used that figure in how much that would close the budget gap, but we'd only be cutting half of that by my proposal. So $1.574 for 20 positions. Mr. Ballhofer? So the total for the 40 positions was $3.1 or was the total for the 20 positions $3.1? That is the total for the 40. Right. So, Mr. Chairman, yes, you cut that in two. So it would be half of that. And then we said about $400,000 for... What was that, the firefighters? Yes. If it was reduced by four. Yes. Then we have constitutional officers. I don't know what those numbers are, but if we put both of those off with Supervisor Dunn's suggestion for a year, so how much would each of those be? The commission of revenue is $77,281, and the clerk of the circuit court is $64,318. What was that number again? $64,318. Okay. So I said treasurer. Sorry. That was commissioner of the revenue and clerk of the court. I knew that. And then we have the sheriff's deputies. So what would be the savings if we cut one of the three positions? It depends. Each position is approximately $200,000. That includes all in with the car and equipment. Okay. And what am I leaving out? I think I'm leaving one out. And the project manager would be the last one, and that's $130,000. So I cut two, cut one. So that's $130,000? Correct. I suppose for the sake of my motion, I'll leave that in since we have a lot of projects ongoing. But I'm perfectly open to be voted down or for any... Further amendments. So my motion is to amend the budget as advertised by removing $1.576 million from the school budget. Remove four from the eight planned firefighters we'd be hiring. Remove for this year the two constitutional officer positions. The one for the commissioner of the revenue and clerk of the court. And for the sheriff's deputies, remove one position. So I'd have to do the math on that savings, but it would be approximately... It would be over $2 million saved. Now, would we... Ms. Schiffler, would we have to come up with those numbers exactly tonight? Would we have to do that? So this... I'm not sure. I'm not sure. If the board decides to do any of what I'm proposing. So instead of me trying to figure all this out, if we get a motion and we get it approved, then I can tell you what needs to be changed on this resolution. Okay. So you would end up changing, I assume that the $1.5 is a decrease in your transfer to the schools. So that would come out of your general operating fund and the school operating fund, and the remainder would come out of the general operating fund. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. officers and one deputy. Is that what you said or are you keeping one? Mr. Scheffler, two staff people to the constitutional officers, not the constitutional officers. Yeah, that's what I meant. I'm sorry. And yes, remove one of the three deputies. That's about $540,000. Okay, so that would be a net savings to our county deficit that Supervisor Dunn was concerned about. Then if I add up the 1.574 and the 540 of 2.114 million dollars. You kept in the project manager? Yes. I'm open to whether I made the right decisions or not. But so I'm cutting the growth in positions of the county government by roughly half in my motion. So, assuming that that's clear, that's my motion. Do I have a second? I'll second that for discussion. Thank you. I have a motion and a second. So now we're discussing this and potentially amending it. I have some comments, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Liero. Okay. A lot of you know my background as a military officer. I was an infantry officer for a long time, reservist, some active duty time. Also spent a little bit of time as a military intelligence officer at the battalion and brigades. So on my pounds at 19 years old, I'm a federal Police Sergeant. I served in the Service of Defense deixar Lagec. And paramedic was one of my feet. So I was very известed in the operations landscape. And in terms of the personnel environment, have I done well? I'll say two things about it. It's got some content, and there's a content aspect to it, and there's a timing aspect to it. I'm not so much in disagreement with the content aspect of it, but I'm just hearing it for the first time. My problem is with the timing aspect of it, and I'm going to echo what others have said. We have had numerous staff meetings, numerous work sections that started at 5 o'clock that went hours at a time, one-hour, two-hour sessions, and so on. This is a major proposal that's being put out there. It wasn't brought up during any of those times. In my humble opinion, this is not how good decisions are made, throwing this out at the last minute. If we wanted to consider this, it should have been brought up in the first couple of meetings and given us ample time to study the proposal, discuss the positives and the negatives, and to come up with a solution. Again, my opinion is this is not the way good decisions are made. I'll yield back. Thank you. Supervisor Dunn. I just want to go back to Mrs. Lockridge's comment. When we did the consensus on the 48 cents, I voted present. If you remember, everybody said it. I said, no, I'm present here. I'm not voting yay or nay, because two years ago I made a vote, and other people here said there was a tax increase, which was a lie. So I voted present. On the 48 cents, and then we've had the discussions. That's all. I don't know. I don't remember perfectly, but at that point, I think that's a scapegoat, because at some point you have to own. I mean, I'm going to get ridiculed for increasing, because we are. We've been assessed 20% higher, all of our property values, and we have dropped the rate, and we're, I would say, about a 15% increase. 13. Okay. So we are. So we are increasing taxes. It doesn't look like it, but we are. So just to be very clear on that. So I think, you know, at that point, yes, you have laid out some very good policy decisions that we could to raise revenue, but I don't, you know, if you thought it could have been higher, I never heard you once say we should increase. I didn't. You didn't. No. I've laid out other options. My other options were the 1%. The 1%, though, I don't believe that we can do that. That's not at a local level. But, Mrs. Lockridge, we could. This board could have gone to the governor. The chairman could have called up the governor and said, Governor, we have seven board members that say this is important to us. Reconsider your veto. The chair could have gone on behalf of the board, and I'm not putting this on the chair. I'm saying if there's a consensus among all seven of us to delegates Wiley, Oates, and Senator French and say, we need you to vote yes on this because. And that didn't occur. So it's a policy decision, and we can agree to disagree. But that's. That's where I'm coming from. No, and you have some very valid points. I'm not huge on increasing our real estate. I think you've mentioned it several times. We're being taxed on an unrealized game. I shouldn't have to rent out my bedroom to pay. And I think Florida, Bolhoffer, I believe we've discussed, they have some sort of homesteader. There's ways, but that isn't under our control. Like you said, we could maybe go to the state. But did you want to take it to revenue neutral at one point? Because I didn't hear that either. That would be, what, 42 cents? 42.4. 42.4 cents, and then implement all of the other ways. And I didn't hear that as a discussion. You talked about increasing revenue, which we need. But I think it's not fair for you to sit out and vote present. I mean. I'll be voting something yay or nay on this one. Okay. The only other comment, Mrs. Lockridge, is that we won't go through a tax situation. We have a 36.4. million dollar block of money that's being used for ongoing operational expenses. I sent you all an email earlier today, and that was to address the comments that Mrs. Slaughter made at our last work session on transportation, and then to address the issue on schools. If we give the schools $30 million, that covers both the expenses for Middletown and Stonewall, and it's like 29 point something. The balance can go toward this new high school. That saves us $20 million over 20 years, 19.5 if you want to be exact, and that saves us money. I'm not going to be here next year. You will be. But my comment here is that we have been using for the last three years this capital fund as a slush fund. If that slush fund goes to zero this year or a million or two, put something in there for the unexpected. But that was what it was designed for. It was designed for one-time capital expenses, not ongoing operations. It was designed for operational expenses. And this budget here, there's no money on the operational side for transportation, yet it's going to continue to be needed. There's no money here for the annual expenses going to the schools for their maintenance. This year we're doing $4 million. Last year it was scheduled for $5 million. Last year we were scheduled for $5.5 million for ongoing capital annual expenses. This year it was cut to four. So that's getting me uncomfortable when you start to put those numbers in. A year ago we had $9 million as an expected rollover. I ran a talent show. I ran a town hall meeting last summer. The number all of a sudden went to $12 million. Then it came back to $9 million. Three weeks ago, four weeks ago, we had two pro forma items that were presented. One of those pro formas had a $9 million rollover. One had a $12 million rollover. So could I go to a revenue neutral and use up that capital fund or use the capital fund to go to the schools? Yes. But this board, in my opinion, needs to put the capital fund for capital projects. It needs to come up with a way to solve this problem. So let's see what happens with this $0.48 vote and then we'll go from there. Can I respond real quick? However, I believe the way we have used it, which you and I both agree we're maybe not living within our means as a county, allows for smaller incremental growth or taxation to our people. Because if we go ahead and put that $30 million to the schools for the capital projects that you talk about, then all of a sudden, next year, when we have nothing to do those projects that we've been doing or the school buses or whatever it may be that we have been funding, fire and rescue apparatus, then we've got to do significant tax increases. And I don't believe that is fair to the people either. So I think we're using them in a wise way to have incremental growth. Yeah, percentage. Two more minutes, Mr. Chairman. Two years ago, before Mr. Ludwig was chair, we had a vote. And I voted yes, even though there was at that time a $15 million deficit. And I voted yes because I laid out at that time, I said, fine, I'll vote yes for this. I don't think it's sustainable in the long run. I'll vote yes to this to buy the time to solve a problem. Last year, we had a planned deficit. This year, we have a planned deficit. And I don't see a solution. That's the angst that I'm having here. If there were a solution to solving this problem, I would vote yes. If there were a solution to solve this problem, and we worked out a solution, I'd be more than willing to do it. But I'm not seeing a solution other than just continue to use the capital fund for ongoing operations. And I think that's incorrect. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you. In response to Supervisor Liero, I know you're one of the newest members here on the board. And so it is challenging to consider changes to the budget on the last day when we're voting. In my time on the board, we've done that every year. We've had some years where there were many, many amendments to the budget presented and debated. On all the positions I'm suggesting, we have had presentations from those departments on what those positions mean. From the schools in particular, you and I have had a discussion on the fact that they have had 40 open positions or more all during the year. So there's plenty of room for them to grow in the budget I'm suggesting. The only one I think we haven't heard from is in a substantial budget. in a substantial presentation was the clerk of the court exactly what that position would be doing. But other than that, we have we have heard from all these departments. So, Supervisor Jewell. We're still in discussion, correct? We're in discussion and I was, when that's done, I'll move for a vote on my amendment. It's not on the final budget. On your amendment, sir, I totally disagree. We need to fund those positions. Actually, I have talked to the clerk of the court. She really needs that position desperately and I just think I absolutely agree with Supervisor Leero. Coming in at the 11th hour, we've been working on this for three months and we've spent a lot of time here. So, this is not the time nor the place that this should have been brought up. I just stand on that. I'm supporting the staff and I'm supporting constitutional officers. I'm supporting everything we're doing. Fire and rescue and sheriffs. Thank you. Very good. I would just encourage the board, if you want to make any cuts at all to the growth in county government, you'll vote for this amendment and then after it passes, you'll vote to further amend to add some positions back in that you believe, you may know more than I do, are essential positions that shouldn't have been momentarily cut from the budget. So, none of this is final if we're ready to vote to see if my amendment will pass. One comment, Mr. Chairman. I asked staff a year or two ago to show me how many people have been added to the county government. That was ciek and it was a hell of a lot. I even voted just on many geographic originations. The only increases have been in fire and rescue and the police. I think, for example, Mrs. Sheffler's office had one person. I think there was one person was added in HR. And I'm just going purely by memory. But there weren't a whole lot. And so, the growth we're seeing in but you're right, the main growth has been employing a lot of SROs, which we didn't used to have as a county, so that the schools have active protection, and also to fire and rescue. Those have been expanded significantly, and that still would be expanded under my proposal. So if we're good to go to vote on my amendment, we'll proceed. Supervisor Jewell? No. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Wells? Nay. Vice Chair? Nay. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? No. The chair votes aye. The motion fails. So back on the table is the original motion for the budget as advertised. Are there any other amendments or discussion? I would just say had my amendment passed, I would have then made a motion to take that $2 million in savings, apply half of it to our deficit, leaving it in the capital fund, and have them shipped. I would have to do some quick math to apply the rest to the real property tax rate, but it didn't pass, so you're spared having to do that math. So we keep on talking about as advertised. This resolution isn't really what was advertised. Remember, we added the $3.2 million additional state revenue for the schools. So I want to bring that to your attention. And I believe if I made that, when the motion was made, the motion was made as stated in the resolution. Okay. Well, he just said as advertised. So I misspoke now. So just so the public knows the difference, there was an ad. We had a meeting with the board a couple of weeks ago, I believe, on the proposed budget. And since then, was it in a work session? It was a work session. Or was it a board meeting? The state had decided to provide from Richmond some additional funds to the schools, and we did amend what was advertised to accept those funds. That doesn't cost the taxpayer anymore. That's just so that we could include in our budget and accept those funds from the state that they want to provide. Do I have that right? Yes. So it's the resolution, which is only changed from what you saw in the newspaper by that one action. Okay. If there's no other discussion or amendments, we'll vote on the motion on the table. Seeing no one, Supervisor Liero. I do have some discussion on the last issue. Am I still on time to do that? No. Once we vote, we're just voting. Okay. Mr. Chairman, this is a vote on the... On the resolution. So this is the final vote on the resolution. You know, I'll suspend the rules and allow you to make a comment, because these are our budget for next year. And I'll add a comment, too, and that is, if anyone is unhappy, including myself, with what we end up with here, of course we have time for supplementals, if anything is short, as the year goes on. This is just the budget that we'd be establishing tonight. Supervisor Liero. Yeah, just a couple comments on decision-making and sound decision-making. I think it's pretty obvious what's going on here tonight. And like others have said, we've been through this process for three months now, spent hours and hours on this process. There is absolutely no reason why that proposal by the chair could not have been brought up several months ago in order for us to have a deliberate debate on that, the positives and negatives again. I think, in my opinion... I think, in my opinion, that proposal was just thrown out there tonight, knowing that it was going to fail. The way I look at it, if you want to make a positive impact in the community, you want to try to advocate for something that is actually going to pass, and you come to your work sessions, make a case for your proposals, get others on board, talk to people, make phone calls, send emails, etc., etc., and work through to fruition. And get your proposal to pass. I think this proposal was designed to fail just to make a point, and I just feel like being used in that situation. So that's the last comment I have on that. Well, I feel compelled to respond, Supervisor Ligero. I'm a little offended. I absolutely believe that restraining the growth of government is something that this board would be willing to entertain, even on the last day. In fact, I've been involved with many, in fact, I've been involved with many, in fact, I've been involved with many, in fact, I've been involved with many, last day budget adoptions when people brought forth amendments to try and find savings in the budget. And it's happened virtually every year I've been on the board, and they've all been on items that we had discussed and worked on. I'll give a few examples. You and I had a discussion where you said that perhaps the schools don't need any of the new positions. They still have 40 or even up to 100 positions that were vacant at different times during the year. So there's certainly room there. We discussed that filling the 40 vacant positions is a growth in their resources and a significant one. So I thought that was something I'm only proposing half of that. Supervisor Dunn had suggested at one point that pre-K is not a program that this board ever entertained in a public hearing to cover. That is money that was started, a program that was started through COVID funds. So we accepted that at the time and allowed that to go forward. But we never revisited whether the public, through a public hearing process other than our normal budget cycle, whether they really wanted to fund pre-K. That's a substantial program that the schools often propose to grow, to expand. So again, this was simply a proposition I felt and that could be further amended if you thought that my proposal was in the right direction, but not correct in all its points that I actually did feel that this board would entertain. So again, we're down to the vote for the budget as put out in a resolution. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. I'm tempted to just say present, but I don't think that's fair. So I expect that you're voting on this, Supervisor Dunn, and I agree with Liero that this is, this is, this is last minute and I don't like change like that either. So I'm going to go ahead and be in support. I'm an aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Nay. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The Chair votes no. The motion passes. So the budget as put forth in the resolution is approved. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Scheffler. And we move forward to Item 9. Appointment. Appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. We have one to appoint tonight. This is on the Planning Commission. It's a Shawnee District Representative. Supervisor Liero. Mr. Chair, I'd make a motion that we. Your speaker, please. Mr. Chair, I'd make a motion that we reappoint Elizabeth Kozel to the Planning Commission seat in the Shawnee District. She is, her four-year, current four-year term expires on April 28th, 2025. She is eligible and willing for reappointment. Second, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? We move to a vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. The Chair votes aye. The appointment is made. 9B, we have a number of open positions. Ms. Phillips, would you like to read them? Certainly. The Board is seeking applicants for the following vacancies. Conservation Easement Authority, an unexpired three-year term, Extension Leadership Council from the Redbud District, and Social Services Board member from the Redbud District also. Thank you. These are positions which the public, we invite the public to participate in our processes. And so if you're interested in any one of these activities of the County, please look us up on F.C. C.V.A. dot U.S. Go to the Board of Supervisors page and you can pull up all our boards and committees and look for those three and read about them. Thank you. Then items 10 and 11, we have nothing on the agenda. Now we move to public hearings. We have two tonight. 12A, Conditional Use Permit number 02-25 of Russell Valley Farm LLC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Board. Sorry. Apologize. Thank you. This is a request for a Conditional Use Permit for a Special Events Facility. The 66-acre property is zoned RA and is located in the Gainesboro area. The property is located in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. The property marked in red is located north of Winchester directly on Apple Pie Ridge Road. The property outlined in purple is just north of James Wood High School across from the Apple Glen subdivision. It should be noted that the applicant's residence is located at 270 Panorama Drive, which is here. The persons living in Burlington Lake LLC told 그렇� alguna opció how they were limited tocos públicos. Apologize. In addition, this property has aáitocóý VIDĻど 어렵ập na iniевой ru sculpturessy aím UKU u a bob ries. Thank you. The special event facility will operate year-round, seven days a week from 9 a.m. until 10 p.m., with a maximum of 150 occupants. Guests can provide catered food and amplified music, and portable restrooms will be provided. Again, these are the applicant's proposals and not conditions. This is the proposed layout submitted by the applicant. I added the label for Apple Pie Ridge to orient you. The entrance is directly off of Apple Pie Ridge Road. The existing structure is the rectangular building located here, the proposed parking along this gated area here, and again noting that the applicant's residence is located at 270, which is there. The special event facility is permitted in the RA with an approved conditional use permit. You are familiar with the zoning ordinance requirements, and they are provided for you on the screen. Should the Board of Supervisors find this use to be appropriate, the Planning Commission would recommend the following conditions. All review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. The hours of operation for the events from 9 a.m. until 10 p.m., with a maximum of 100 events annually. A site plan shall be approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the facility. The site plan shall be approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the facility. The site plan shall be approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the facility. A site plan shall be approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the facility. Portable restrooms shall be provided. No commercial equipment is permitted for the food preparation inside the facility. Restrooms inside the facility is for private use only and is not for the use by patrons. No more than 150 guests and contractors on the property at any one time. Amplified music is prohibited. Any expansion or change of use shall require a new conditional use permit. The item is presented for public hearing. The Planning Commission held a public meeting on March 19th and recommended approval with modified conditions as were presented to you tonight. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm happy to answer any questions. And the applicant, Mrs. Russell, is also here to answer any questions that you may have. Thank you. Any questions about the presentation first? Yep. Supervisor Dunn? Can you just go over again what the amplified music is, when it occurs, when it stops, or any conditions on that, please? Yes, sir. So the applicant had requested amplified. No, I was looking for what. Okay. The applicant had no conditions, right? The applicant was proposing to have amplified music. The Planning Commission recommended that that would be no amplified music for outdoors. So what coming to us? Will we make the decision then on music, or are we voting on one of these, on what the Planning Commission said? You are voting on what the Planning Commission recommended for you. All right. So the Planning Commission has then no. No amplified outdoors. Okay. But we could amend that. Okay. Thank you. Sorry. Any other questions about this? Did the applicant want to present, or is just available for questions? She has no presentation. She is available for questions. Okay. Are there any questions for the applicant before we go to public hearing? Seeing none, thank you very much. So this is a public hearing. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? Yes, we have several. Jolene Schulers. Hi. If you could start with your name and your magisterial district. Sure. Jolene Schulzeis, Alvin Schulzeis, Gainesboro District. Apple Podridge Road is a prestigious and rural residential area. What is the guarantee that the music will be cupped inside? Will the barn be soundproofed? If not, the noise from the music from the event will carry far and wide. How do you ensure that the doors will stay closed, especially in the summertime? Is the barn air conditioned? The Planning Commission did not press the owner to satisfactorily answer this question. At events, alcohol may be involved, even though it is not permitted. What is the guarantee? The planning commission did not press the owner to satisfactorily answer these questions. So is the event center going to be a free-for-all where Russell Valley Farm can do whatever they want? There are no specifics or guidelines as to how this event center will operate. Again, the planning commission did not press the owner for a satisfactory, detailed plan. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Have you heard from Russell? And this is just like what you had said about R re credit problems, and this is the final one? No. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next question from Susan Nash from Arizona. Susan, I want to go to you first. I just had one question, and this is from Steven. If it doesn't matter there's an EVA contract, we would fix thathighly. If it doesn't matter there's an EVA contract, we would fix thathighly. At the moment, this is theu-he fair period. I have to prove I did note that, you know, that I'll also have a significant interest for this. I as a host, I would like to. doing this. and tranquil. The same member stated, would you rather have a subdivision, so as to indicate our choice was either an event center or a housing subdivision. To be honest, a housing subdivision would be quieter than an event center and produce less traffic and produce more taxes and revenue for the county. We live in a 12-house subdivision, and it is quiet and produces very little traffic noise. It seems to us that several members of the Planning Commission were advocating for Russell Valley Farm and voicing their personal opinions and were opposed to any opposition to the CUP, where they should have been objective. Of all the people that spoke regarding Russell Valley Farm, only one person was not opposed, and that person was a personal friend of the Russells. There was no in-depth examination of the claims made by the owners concerning the operation of the event center. In addition, several members were talking about helping the farmer. The event center is not a farming issue. It is a commercial enterprise for entertainment. Setting up the business requires a lot of work and a lot of effort. The event center is not a farming issue. It is a commercial enterprise for entertainment. It is a commercial enterprise for entertainment. The event center requires tremendous funds and insurance, and it will take many years for them to recoup their investment. If they need money so badly, where are they getting money to renovate the barn? The proposal is beyond acceptable, as it does not benefit the community, but it adversely affects it. It benefits only Russell Valley Farm, LLC, and is a detriment to the community and will ruin the rural and tranquil character of the country, as well as decreasing other property values. An event center is selfish and inconsiderate and an eyesore. Russell Valley Farm is surrounded by residential properties, and Apple Pie Ridge Road is not a place for a commercial event center, future mini golf course, and playground. Thank you very much for your time. I was so, I was so support. I was going to let you have time. I was just going to say that I'm in hospitality industry for 30 years. I'm sorry, your name and majesty. My name is Alvin Schiltice. I'm the husband. Yeah. And I'm a member of the hospital industry. I'm a member of the hospital industry. I've been a hospitality for over 35 years, and I worked at event centers, and there's a lot of potential for mayhem. You might say there's no alcohol, people will bring it. If it's really hot, if the barn isn't air conditioned, I worked in air conditioned facility, and people opened doors because it was too hot. So there's a lot of potential for mayhem. Another thing is, is that that particular road, there's a lot of people that drive very fast on it, and there's a potential for problems. Thank you. Thank you. Stan Crockett. Name and magisterial district, please. And as you might note from the last speaker, we do have a three minute clock here. Thank you. My name is Stan Crockett. I'm in the Gainesboro Magisterial District, and I also live on Panorama Drive. Our little subdivision is next to, adjoins the property in question. I'd like to say in reading the request for this conditional use permit, my opinion, it checks all the boxes for an appropriate conditional use in the RA district. But most importantly, it preserves prime agricultural land, scenic views. It maintains the rural nature of our area. The Russells have said, told me that they wish to continue their agricultural lifestyle. though, I know there's a lot of ground on theישan. Go ahead and say it in my Dear Speaker for a second. Farm is tough. I come from a long line of farmers. Both my mother and father's family were farmers. And I can tell you, it's We've just came off of two consecutive years of drought. It's incumbent upon farmers to look for innovative, creative ways to come up with ancillary income so that they can continue doing that work in the facility. Now, last, and I have to say, certainly, the rural areas of the city of continue their agricultural lifestyle, which they have expressed that they want to do. I don't need to remind you guys that we're losing R.A. in Frederick County at what I think is an alarming rate. I think it's incumbent upon all of us not to close doors, but to do those things that would encourage farmers and folks like the Russell to have some type of ancillary income so that they can maintain their farming lifestyle. Folks, if not this, then what? The Russells are also builders. They could build a subdivision on that property. 66 acres, let's see, that's 12 to 13 homes. That's 120 car moves per day. Then you add in service vehicles and food delivery and, God forbid, Amazon trucks in there. And you can do the math. I would suggest that on a daily basis, we're talking about an occasional event. On a daily basis, the negative traffic and noise impact will be far greater than what the applicant is proposing. In addition, I saw up there item number eight, no outside amplified music. It might be helpful if you have a wedding, if you could have a wedding, March song played outside during nice weather. I've lived at Panorama Drive for 30 years. I've known the Russells for 30 years, and I know them to be ethical, responsible business people who do the right thing. I guess my time is up. Thank you for listening to me. I'm sorry? Thank you, sir. You're welcome. Cynthia Noya. Good evening. My name is Cynthia Noya. My husband and I live at 2744 Apple Pie Ridge Road. Our 43 acres are adjacent to the Russells, 66 acres being considered for the cup. Our house sits on a ridge overlooking the building that's going to be used for the venue. So, we are the neighbors that are going to be most affected by this cup. We understand the reason why the Russells want to start a new business, and we really do empathize with them. There are, however, some issues that we would like to see be mitigated. The Planning Commission has recommended no amplified music allowed outside the venue building, and I'd like to tell Mr. Crockett that I have been to outside weddings, and I'm going to be there. I'm going to be there. I'm going to be there. We've been to every venue. We've really looked at all the venues and selected all the venues only due to the great for the今回 to be uplifted. The locations and descriptions of these need to be clarified. At this point, I would like to take a little personal with you and tell you how this cup is going to affect my husband and myself personally. I was born and raised in Winchester, Virginia, and my mother grew up in Whitehall, which is right down the road from where we live on Apple Pie Ridge. My mother's parents were tenant farmers. They didn't own a farm, but they worked it, and they worked it until the Depression. At that time, my grandfather lost everything, and he had to move his family into Winchester, and he eventually became a salesman. But it was always my family's dream to get back to Apple Pie Ridge. They were never able to make it. But after my husband retired, he and I decided that we were going to move to Apple Pie Ridge. We were going to return to our home. And the first piece of property that I saw for sale happened to be on Apple Pie Ridge Road. It was 43 acres, and it was for sale. It was slated to become a housing development with 15 homes. Everything had been approved. It was owned by a bank. We were able to get the bank to vacate the development so that we could purchase it, and we could purchase the property just as acreage, because we did not want the development. We wanted to preserve the land. We wanted to have a rural experience. We built our home. Okay. Well, thank you for your consideration. If you have a final sentence or two, please. Okay. Well, I just wanted to say that in making your decision about the Cup, we hope that you will consider, and I think everyone that's going to be impacted by this, that if it's approved, we hope you'll put restrictions on it to help preserve our quiet lifestyles and to protect us in the future from one type of event expanding into a lot of other events. Thank you very much. Thank you. Alan Noya. Hi. Thanks for having us. I'm the husband of Cindy, who just passed away, and I'm the husband of my son, who just passed away. I'm worried about the noise, the lights, the alcoholic beverages, and I want to reiterate that we bought this land from Summit Bank. I think it was one of the Russell people who had plans for development. You folks at some point approved a 15-lot subdivision, and as Cindy said, a condition, a condition of our buying it, and we had other bidders, including Ryan Holmes, as a condition of buying the land, we had the bank collapse the subdivision. We have a wonderful, beautiful home, but as Cindy said, it's very close to where the venue is proposed, not the three-quarters of a mile, as it says in the application that they put forward, but really a fourth of a mile. We can clearly see that the land is not going to be used for a lot of other purposes. We will clearly see the barn. We will clearly see the parking lot, and if there's any outside music, we can clearly hear it. From what I've witnessed so far, the Planning Commission, and even here tonight, knowing the way politics works, this will probably be approved. I would encourage you to help mitigate the noise, the traffic concerns, and the lights, especially the lights and the noise, and anything you can do to mitigate the control, or control the alcoholic use, because we're so close. We share a 2,300-foot boundary with the Russell property, so we are the most affected, as my wife said by this. Again, anything, you can do, anything, you can do to mitigate my concerns would be greatly appreciated, but I want to go on the record as saying that I do not appreciate the commercial use of RA land, even though the rules say that they can have it. We are very concerned with the nature of the entire neighborhood. Thank you. Sean Morgan. Thank you. Hi. My name is Sean Morgan. I live in the Gainesboro District. I'm actually across the street from where the venue would be located. We, none of us were really notified. Little teeny sign that says, hey, there's going to be a hearing. They did not even get, in their next door, a notice that this was going to happen. So when we all found out, we said, well, everybody needs to know we need to vote. We are all affected greatly on Apple Pie by the traffic, and this will affect the traffic greatly, especially if it's seven days a week from nine in the morning until 10 at night. So again, the restrictions are really important. The noise, the volume, the lighting, all of that, the alcohol. But what I, honestly, what I don't understand is the fact that, you know, the Farm Act, they keep saying that. If you bought a farm, you're farming. My grandparents were farmers on both sides for, for their whole entire lives. They're Dutch farmers. They came, they farmed. They knew what the responsibility was of the land. They knew how to take care of the land. Not once did they ever continue putting a venue in to make money. They did other things to make money. My grandfather actually sold profits to Gerber to make money. So there's tons of different ways you can make money as a farmer without having a venue. So to me, when you have farmland, it's zoned farmland. You turn it into commercial land, it's now commercial. A venue is commercial. And I guess when I chose my house here, I chose on Apple Pie so that it could be residential. I did not choose commercial property across from me. Thank you. Thank you. Monty Morgan. Awesome. Thank you very much for letting me speak. My name is Monty Morgan. I'm part of Gainesboro District. I do want to address the one issue with the neighborhood and going in there. With the venue, you're gonna have 150 people coming out at the same time, you know, within hours, within minutes of each other, whereas a neighborhood is going to be spread out through the entire day. One of the issues that was brought up in the meeting was V-Docs. V-Docs. V-Docs. V-Docs. V-Docs. They approved 100 guests. They've moved it up to 150. I don't think that's right. And they should make sure that they're legally, so they don't get sued. That's just me personally. Currently, there are two, one of the things that was not on the map there, there's currently two other venue, wedding venues on Apple Pie Ridge Road, one north of us, about two and a half miles, and one south is about two and a half miles. I know that, the neighbors of the north one, because I talk with them, all have complaints about the venue up there. It's very loud, and they don't try and control it, and there's a lot of issues there. So, I know that they're planning to having food and everything catered. They've never addressed the ABC laws. I'm concerned about that. I will be following up on that one as we move forward. I will amplify, that they're not three quarters of a mile away from their nearest neighbor. They are more like a quarter of a mile, as Alan brought up earlier. Right now, there's nothing curtailing the light restrictions or light, any light pollution that would go from the event. And then, you know, I personally, I think, you know, with the noise and stuff and the traffic, they've nothing's been proposed for, for them to put up any barriers to stop noise or insulate their barn or anything else like that. So that's my concern. So thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's the end of the list. Thank you very much. And is there anyone else who'd like to speak about this conditional use permit? Seeing no one, I'll close the public comment period on this. I'd like to address something before we get started with board discussion on this, and that is there was a comment about politics being involved. I've never seen board members act that way. We actually consider every one of these very carefully. State law tells us that farms have some special provisions and we can't change that, that they have the ability to have certain businesses or even build a home on one corner of their lot. And that's nothing, nothing we would have a decide on, be able to decide on that so that they have the ability to raise revenue and stay in business. So we keep our farm. So that's, that's a state provision that comes down to us. We spend a lot of time as does the Planning Commission considering all your concerns, and I'm sure we're about to do that too. So just let everyone know. I don't know that this is a done deal until we hear from you. That's why we have these public hearings. Board, how would you like to handle this one? This is in Gainesboro. Mr. Chairman, a time for discussion before I set forth. I just want to point out that I have been out to the facility. I met with the Russells. And I've also met with the Noyes. And so I just want to read this. The conditional use shall be in harmony with and shall not adversely affect the use and enjoyment of surrounding properties. I'm huge on property rights. I think the special event facility provides a way to keep open farmland, but we also need to make sure that the conditions that everyone enjoys their property. So I'm going to read this just so we understand what our, where our, comprehensive plan is and then come up with some way to mitigate that the impacts. So one goal in the RA areas and the comprehensive plan set forth by the County is that the County should continue to support and encourage new land used in the rural area and continue. And it continues to say that other land uses in addition to agriculture uses may allow property owners to keep properties intact rather than subdividing. Subdividing. So I believe that a special event, facility does just that. The one we are currently voting on, which is off of apple pie is taking an existing structure and converting it to a different use, which I believe is exactly what the goal of allowing this conditional use and the RA. I have pulled Miss Feltner has been amazing at getting all and I think one of you guys spoke and said we do have to an apple pie. I live right off of apple pie. So one of. LIke I believe. them The local I believe. Every space and Personing. borders where I with and I just want to read. That the the conditions on that one just as we. Kind of decide where we wanna go. As have been working with this and I feel that as a county we maybe need to come and become more consistent and. I realize is case by case. However it's really hard when. midnight as well. So I do think maybe a suggestion, I look at the one, Six Pastures, which is down the road north of this one. And that one, actually, I have it right here so I can read to you guys and let our board know exactly what other conditions are and how we can mitigate this one. So that one in particular, events shall start no earlier than 10 a.m. and all should conclude by midnight. No music is permitted outdoors. Events may accommodate up to and not exceed 290 people. So I thought that's worth noting. Another one that is, like I said, borders the property where I live and that is the Solenberger Barn. Events shall start no earlier than noon and related... activities shall conclude by 11 p.m. Amplified outdoor music shall conclude by 9 p.m. Special events may accommodate up to and not exceed 200 persons. And then I know you guys probably are familiar with Fox Meadow. I've pulled that one. They also may accommodate up to not exceed 280 people and all outside music shall conclude by 9 p.m. Music may continue indoors until the conclusion of the event which is midnight. So I wanted to give you some comparable facilities and then I wanted to try to mitigate the impact of this one in particular. So I have met with the Noyes. They are concerned with that lighting and I believe I have written up and I've actually met with the Russells. The existing and we may have a chance to talk about this in the next session. Can I have you come up? Maybe would that be okay? There already is outdoor lighting on this barn. The Noyes have seen that but their concern is what other lighting once we get the site plan. Miss Russell is that the lighting that's there unless you're directed by I don't know a site engineer. I don't know whether you're going to be directed for safety to put more lights and Wyatt you may be able to answer that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Are they going to need more lights for their facility? Amy, do they have a site plan requirement on theirs? They do have a site plan and that won't be done until this is conditional uses past. It won't but I think that they were pursuing agricultural exemptions for the structures themselves. Is the mic not working? No? Okay. Sorry. Yeah. I think they were pursuing agricultural exemptions for the structures themselves which means they probably would not be required to do outdoor lighting or anything on the outside of it. Okay. So is it accurate to say that you wouldn't be required to do outdoor lighting on the outside of it? would not have parking lot like huge um commercial lighting down there no all the lighting that we're going to have is there already okay it's just your normal um you know outside lights by the doors when we do have two two um like spotlight kind of that come down on either side of the building that's it okay and according to miss faulkner as you do a site plan they will have you put where that lighting currently is and if if you were to change that then you wouldn't be under compliance of the conditional use but it sounds to me that you're content with the lighting you have um so i was hoping to put that on record that there will be no commercial um lighting but miss faulkner i would like to add um that all lighting this is a condition that other um cups have all lighting shall be downcast to avoid glare on adjacent properties and residences you so that would be a condition that's not on there that i would like to put on there um and then their next concern and it was and i i did see it on the sketch today but was the child play area and i've asked miss faulkner about that as well um if we could add the condition that it's an accessory to your special event facility meaning that you could never sell um i know we have farm events where people come as a day um you know for corn mazes and that you would not be selling event tickets for any play area um it's it would be an accessory to your special event facility yeah i don't know if you can hear me because i'm short but um you can bend it down as much okay thank you um the yeah the play area is the only purpose of it was to have something there for the kids for like a wedding reception to have such an area where they could be able to play and so it's an accessory to your special event facility and that's a really good point um and i think that's a good point they have something to do as well as we would like to offer a place for birthday parties and you know of course that's usually kid birthday parties and we just have a you know swing set type thing and you know i have mentioned miniature golf and i just want to clarify that um when i said manager golf i really meant just you know your backyard type little few holes to go around you know for something else for him to do um i was going to do it in my own house but i never have so i thought well i'll just you know be neat to add a few over there as well but i mean i don't i don't have to have that either but it's not going to be anything um i mean it would be right right around the swing set and then it's not i mean i'll probably make it myself so it's not going to be anything so it's going to be continue to be a child play area and not right um so that yeah that will make them feel like, like it's not a, there may be no extra lighting for it will be necessary or anything like that. It's, you know, it's just very low key, low, you know, so you go on Pinterest and get the ideas. That's the only thing I did. You'd be fine if we fashion language, it says you're not opening a miniature golf course, you know, as a separate business, that it's only an accessory to your event. Right, exactly. Yeah. Um, and you had mentioned when I went to visit that this place is insulated and you have heating and air conditioning. Yes. We had insulation blown and we have the, um, I don't forget what you call it, but the, you know, we insulated the walls with, uh, what do you call that stuff? Yeah. Spray foam. No, the spray foam. And we did the other installation too. Okay. Backing on it, you know, okay. I should know that, but I don't, but anyway, we did a extra, we did, we did much extra insulating than what we really would have had to done. Okay. So if your facility were contained inside, then nobody technically, and I've talked to Fox meadow and they're, they have their music inside. For most events, because their dance floor is inside, um, then I just want the surrounding areas to be protected. But with that being said, um, and to this board, I just posed the question, I have been just recently to two outdoor weddings and the ceremony music, whether it's violin, um, the bride walking down the aisle is outdoors. That's why they choose a beautiful rural setting is because of being outdoors. Um, I don't want bands up there. I don't want bands outdoors. I don't think that's what she's after. However, I believe that an outdoor wedding, and I don't know if we could have a condition that the bride would walk down the aisle before 7 PM. Um, to me that amplified music is not, um, bridal music. So, but I've talked to Amy about this and I've gone back and forth because I, I don't want bands outdoor, outdoor bands. So how, how can we, um, you know, put way too many conditions on them that they go out of business and then the land gets developed. The purpose of a conditional use permit is to allow that to remain agriculture. Do you have a suggestion? Yeah, I think I picked up what you were describing as far as differentiating between the two. Are you looking to allow for there to just be, can you try Austin's Mike to see if it doesn't amplify? Speaking of amplified, yeah, it's weird. Does that matter? Is this any better? No, you'll have to just speak loudly or you can come up. We like to get this recorded so the public has a record of the discussion. Oh, can I share your mic? Of course. Help yourself. And I apologize. I might've misunderstood what it was you were asking, but we've done ones previously that clarified that acoustical music would be permitted outdoors. And so if it's not plugged into an amplifier, not electronically amplified to increase the noise, the instruments themselves could be performed acoustically outdoors. Is that kind of what you were alluding to or? I don't know. I have been, I went to a wedding at six pastures last year and as the bride walked down the aisle, I, we could hear, um, and it wasn't rock and roll. It was just ceremonial music. Um, but yet they have to keep their music indoors as well. I just want to make sure I believe if I were a neighbor, I believe that I could put up with a, a 30 minute ceremony outdoors. Um, and plus it wouldn't be concert music. And after that, the music, the dance floor would be indoors and mitigate the impact for the surrounding neighbors. But I, right now the planning commission had said no amp, no outdoor amplified. But again, when I look at surrounding CUPs, we've got no consistency. And so I'm trying to work with them, but I also don't want the neighbors to be hugely impacted by that noise. So, did you have something? Well, I just want to clarify that our, our dance floor is inside as well too. So, you know, um, I would think all receptions would be inside indoors. Um, but when you, I don't really understand amplified other than the fact that it's plugged into a speaker and, and, and sometimes on outside, if you have ceremonial, um, music, you may have to plug that into a speaker for everybody to hear it. And so, I just want to be able to do an outdoor wedding, a wedding that I can't, don't have to tell the people that you can't, you know, might not hear everybody might not hear it or something. Right. You know, I just, it's really only in the beginning of the, of the wedding, mostly well, and then once on the right on the way out. Yeah. Something like that. So why did it sounds like the supervisor and the applicant are suggesting maybe we could have a 30 minute or one hour timeframe that becomes really hard to enforce. Earlier in the day. That's well, yeah. And I think maybe even just an exception to the no outdoor amplified music for the purposes of a wedding ceremony is something that my zoning inspector could work with. Right. Cause then if we get a complaint about it and he goes out and there's clearly not a ceremony being conducted, you know, he could sign them accordingly and that's an option as well. Yeah. Would a time limit be reasonable? So to appease the neighbors that, you know, a ceremony is not usually three hours long. Kind of being complaint driven is a, such a challenge. Right. Because when, by the time we get the complaint, assuming that he's even in the office at that time, his ability to get out and capture it in the moment. And he won't be because chances are it's Friday, Saturday weddings. That's when they happen. Yeah. And so like in the instances of enforcing this on a weekend, we, you know, we've worked out outside of our normal hours. Um, but we could also ask the Russell's for documentation, you know, of the ceremony that was had at what time it was and compare that to the complaint we get. And these things are always a challenge. From an important enforcement perspective. I want to be clear about that, but, um, yes. And I don't want an outdoor concert. I think that I'm trying to mitigate that, but I also don't want their hands to be tied. Do not do outdoor ceremonies to outdoor weddings. That's what people. That's what people want. I think an exception referencing the ceremony could work in company to the existing condition of no outdoor amplified music. And that we could find a way to enforce that, you know, with that reason, obviously. Yeah. So if, if the Russell's get tricky with us and start trying to work around it and start telling us that they're having weddings where there's bands playing constantly, then, you know, we'll let a judge decide if that's, if that's reasonable or not, but I'm not too worried about it. So, yeah. Does that fit your needs better? Yeah. Um, is, I mean, we're not planning on having parties outside or, you know, crazy stuff, but, but yeah, I would like to be able to have something for the wedding ceremony. Right. So for the bride to walk down the aisle, that kind of music in my mind would not affect the neighbors. Um, again, I do live next to a facility that has outdoor amplified music till 9 PM. And often we laugh and say, I wish it was a little bit louder so I could enjoy it from my home rather than having to be at the event. But that's not everybody. And I understand that. So, um, can I go ahead and have that condition? How would you like that worded? Yeah, I think that's, I think that's a great question. Um, I think that's a great question. Um, I think that's a great question. Um, I think that's a great question. So you're going to make a motion to approve with certain amendments, right? So you're looking for the best language with those three. I want to take out number eight, which is amplified music is prohibited and modify that one. Yeah, I think just, and I'm just going to yell, sorry, but, um, I think just including in your motion, a statement, uh, providing an exception to the outdoor amplified music condition for the purposes of a wedding ceremony. And then we'll work on final language with clear board direction. Afterwards that works for the Russell's as well and, and firm that up in the resolution document. Okay. Yep. Okay. So I would like to go ahead and make a motion to approve this, this CUP, um, number zero two dash 25 of Russell Valley Farm LLC. Um, I would like to go ahead and add the condition that all lighting shall be downcast to avoid glare on adjacent properties and residences. Um, and that the child play area be defined as an accessory. To that special event facility. No additional lighting for that play area. Um, and then, um, the last one would be number eight, um, to get rid of that and modify it to an exception. So no amplified outdoor music is prohibited with the exception of purposes of the wedding ceremony. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? I'll say, can we, we have a motion to second discussion of the motion. Anyone just Mr. Chairman, just one question as to Mr. Pearson on the issue of. Oh, right. Okay. On this issue of, um, amplified music, et cetera. And what I've heard so far, I think is, you know, fine. Um, is there any way to put a condition on that so that neighbors really get into a position where, hey, it wasn't being met that we can come back and address that issue or not. In other words, could you put like a one year, 18 month to your timeframe on it to just to see how it operates in light of what certain other people have said? Yeah. And I think Patrick got me a new mic. Not sure if it's working any better than the old one, but, um, you can certainly do like an expiration timeframe for these. Also all your conditional use permits, if they get cited for a zoning violation, meaning they violated their conditions, the board can revoke the conditional use permit based on that. So those are the options that you have. Thank you. Yeah. Then I'll, I'll defer to Mrs. Lockridge, um, on what you want to do. But, uh, I think if there's a zoning violation that gives us a chance. Okay. So I think I, I don't want it to be where their hands are so tied. And also, and I think the reason she included that golf course is because any modification makes them come back. And so it's just, you know, okay, we'll find out. Very good. Any other discussion of the motion? This chair, I have a couple of questions. I, I probably missed this. This was probably stated already, but is this, uh, is the, uh, CUP, is it limited to a certain number of events per year? And what is that? This one? Um, we have it as 100 events per year, 100 per year. Yes. And that is condition number two hours of operation or 9am to 10pm daily. However, um, they didn't want to put, uh, Friday, Saturday. I mean, they don't, they've, they're not in the business yet, so they don't know. Um, but with a maximum of 100 events annually. Gotcha. And then one question for Mr. Pearson, Mr. Pearson, um, somebody, one of the speakers made references to the, uh, an alternative being residential in that, in that property. If, if this ended up being a residential, uh, property, how many houses could be put in there at this point? Okay. Um, it'd be whatever the acreage is divided by five. Um, admittedly, I don't know the total acreage off the top of my head. Okay. 13, 13, 13, 13 to 12 lots. Um, and we, thank you. Okay. So the purpose of the additional use of my building, our farmland rather than subdivide it and I mean, then it's gone. So I think that does, that's what this purpose does. Any other discussion? The motion from the board. Very good. Then we'll proceed to a vote. This is a motion to approve with those amendments. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The chair votes aye. And the CUP is approved. Our last public hearing tonight, 12 B, an ordinance amendment to the Frederick County code. The chair votes aye. And the CUP is approved. Our last public hearing tonight, 12 B, an ordinance amendment to the Frederick County code. The chair votes aye. And the CUP is approved. And the CUP is approved. And I, while you're looking that up, I'll just say right now, this is on creating some restrictions on data centers, should they come to our county. Right now, there are no restrictions other than any other business. So this would actually provide some regulation based on what we've learned from watching them come to Loudoun County and other counties nearby. Please go ahead. Yes. Thank you. This is the chairman, members of the board. This is an ordinance amendment pertaining to data centers and power-generating facilities. Obviously, you all have seen this item before. I believe this is the third time you all have seen this, but we have made some changes since our last discussion. As the chairman put it, this is a proposal to amend chapter 165, the zoning ordinance, to define and regulate data centers, to differentiate between different types of public utilities in support of the data center industry, and to codify where data centers and public utilities would be allowed back. right or as a conditional use. Given that this is a public hearing item and some people may be seeing this for the first time, we will walk through what is our current standards and also what is being proposed as changes just for making sure that everyone understands what is changing. The first part of this amendment is pertaining to data centers. Our current standard, as noted by the chair, is that they are permitted by right in our B3 industrial transition, our TM technology manufacturing park, M1 light industrial and M2 industrial general zoning districts right now as the ordinance is currently constructed. They are not presently defined in our ordinance and there are no additional regulations to regulate this type of use. We are proposing a definition for data centers which would be a premises in which the majority of the use is occupied by computers and or telecommunications and related equipment for process. Processing, storing or transferring information, infrastructure such as utility substations, power generators and other supporting equipment may also be included. In addition to defining the use, we have included a list of additional regulations specific to data centers. This includes site assessment requirements for including water use estimates. We have provided a restriction on the hours of operation for generator cycling and testing that is limited to Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. We have specified where on site mechanical equipment may be located and how that mechanical equipment should be screened. That includes generators and ensuring the generators are contained within the primary structure or within an approved enclosure to limit the sound emanating from those elements of the site. We have proposed a 200 foot setback from the perimeter where the adjoining use is residential. That would be RP, R4, R5 or MH1 zone property or RA. In the absence of an adjoining residence, we have provided a restriction on the use of the equipment. We have also provided a restriction on the use of the equipment. We have provided a restriction on the use of the equipment. We have also required that a Category C full screen buffer be provided for the property ensuring adequate screening from residences. We have also specified a requirement where adjoined is residential that a Category C full screen buffer be provided around the perimeter of the property ensuring adequate screening from residences from the industrial use. And most importantly, and I think the part that we have worked on the most as a group together would be requirements as it pertains to noise impact analysis, how we establish baseline noise for the site and how ongoing noise monitoring is recorded. recorded, provided to the county to ensure that it's meeting the baseline standard, and if any alterations or changes are made, how we enforce the noise standard. Following your discussion on the 26th, we've made some additional revisions to the proposed ordinance that was included in the item that was sent with your agenda packet this evening. Those incorporates comments from our acoustic consultant and certified noise engineer. You recall she did present at your last meeting and answered a number of questions about data center noise generation. That included her recommendation that we clarify technical terminology. We've changed kind of sound study to environmental noise impact assessment, and we've specified that that is required at the time of a rezoning or conditional use permit application, and she recommended the inclusion of additional qualified noise and acoustical consultant credentials, ensuring that we have the right people conducting that baseline noise study so that we are confident in what we are being provided by the applicants. We have also made amendments to the noise monitoring program that we have been working on. We have also made amendments to the noise monitoring program that we have been working on. We have also made amendments to the noise monitoring program that we have been working on. We have also made amendments to the noise measurement requirements. We require that model baseline prior to that legislative approval, then 12 months post certificate of occupancy, and that would be the operation of the data center. We'd be provided an updated noise study where we could verify if the current noise level is at or below the baseline noise established with the legislative action, and then we'd require an ongoing every five-year cycle. They would supply a new noise study for us to evaluate what the impact of the noise is versus that baseline. Obviously, if there were any additions, alterations to the site, expansions, we'd require a new noise baseline to be conducted and then additional noise studies to follow thereafter at the 12-month and then five-year intervals. We've also provided some additional requirements to stipulate where on-site noise is monitoring, specifying that it's measured at the property line and how it is measured, what type of equipment is used to make sure that we get the most technical information provided to us that is common across all those certified credentials. In addition to the additional regulations, there are some other clarifying amendments that are required for data centers that include specifying which districts are included in the noise nuisance section, which would include the B3 and TM districts, which were not presently included. We've also added B3 and TM to our height waiver exceptions that allows the board to consider height waivers for data center requests in those certain zoning districts to exceed the maximum height established by the district, which is typically 60 feet. This would provide us with a more accurate data center request for those certain zoning districts, and provide the board an opportunity to consider projects on a case-by-case basis where additional height may be necessary to implement a particular type of data center installation. And finally, at your request, at the first public hearing, we have made a revision to allow data centers as a conditional use requiring a conditional use permit, which you are quite familiar with in the B3, M1, and M2 zoning districts. It was previously a buy-right use in these districts, and we are now requiring it be a conditional use. The TM, Technology Manufacturing Park District, it's continued to be an allowed use. We don't have any TM zone property in the county currently, so any requests to be in that district would require legislative action. That is also a district where we want to have those targeted industries land, so it makes sense to leave it as allowed use in that particular district. In regards to power generating facilities, public utilities are presently defined in the ordinance as kind of all-inclusive of both power generation and transmission distribution, and they're allowed in almost all of our zoning districts as a buy-right use. We are proposing a new power generation system for the district, and we are proposing a new power generation system for the district. We are proposing to kind of break public utilities into two separate baskets. The first would be pertaining to power generating facilities. That's going to be your generation of power via coal, natural gas, solar, wind, and any of those other kind of fuel sources. The second would be transmission and distribution facilities. These are more of your kind of underground and overhead transmission facilities, power lines, transformer substations, pump stations, and the like. Again, those are kind of the necessary kind of components. of where it's distributed and a lot less impactful on particular properties and adjoining properties. In considering these two new buckets for public utilities, we are making revisions to where they are allowed and where conditional uses are required. Power generating facilities would be required in most districts with a conditional use permit, giving the board an opportunity to consider those on a case-by-case basis, where transmission and distribution facilities would continue to be allowed by righting all those zoning districts. That is what is currently allowed in the zoning ordinance. And then we've added power generating facilities as a specific use in the B3, TM, M1, and M2 zoning districts. It's also already included to make sure that, you know, where they're accessory to a data center, we have the opportunity to consider that as part of that application. So in regards to your meeting summary, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on February 19th, and they did recommend approval of the ordinance. The board held their first public hearing on March 12th. And you all tabled action at that time and requested that staff come back on the 26th, where we could provide some additional information about noise in particular, which we did. And at your 26th meeting, you all discussed noise, the changes that were made, additional changes were requested, and you took no action at that meeting. We've incorporated all of those changes, all of the changes from the noise consultant and the acoustics engineer as well. And this item is presented tonight as a public hearing. And following the public hearing, we'd be seeking a decision on the ordinance amendment as presented. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. For clarification, after our last meeting, did this go back to Planning Commission again for discussion? It did not go back to Planning Commission. The overall, the mechanics of the ordinance have not really changed. We did add some clarifying things that came out of the work we did with the noise consultant, but we don't think that it materially changes what the Planning Commission took action on in February. Thank you. And to repeat to the public what we said at the last meeting, you've looked at Loudon Fairfax County experiences with data centers, and we've tried to learn from that to protect ourselves from any unexpected events, and that would be constrained. Our ordinance is informed by the stuff they've gone through. Are you able to walk us through, are these requirements at least as restrictive as what's in Loudon and Fairfax, setback height, et cetera? It is very similar to our neighbors in Fairfax, Loudon, and Prince William County. We also worked extensively in reviewing the report by the Joint Legislative Council. And we're very happy to be able to get that report out to the public. Thank you. Thank you. And we also have a legislative action committee of the General Assembly which had a fairly lengthy white paper presentation back in December of best practices of data center implementation around the state, looked at all of the ordinances across the state, and we pulled a lot of our best practices from that. We also want to step further and talk to industry professionals in the data center industry, environmental advocacy groups, and also a noise consultant to make sure that what we're presenting kind of meets the criteria of not being too restrictive but providing the necessary restrictions to ensure that it's not going to have an impact on our community. going to have a negative impact on adjoining properties here in Frederick County. Thank you. You've used the term permitted use and buy right so just so the public is clear. Right now there's not restrictions on this in certain districts so buy right means a business could come in and build such a thing and we wouldn't be able to hear their provisions and either deny it or put additional restrictions on it. That is correct as long as they applied for a site plan and met all the zoning ordinance requirements we would approve it administratively in our office and they could operate without any regulations whatsoever. So we have made a change to certain districts to require conditional use which we saw earlier this evening requires legislative action by the Board of Supervisors and the Planning Commission and then in the TM district it continues to be an allowed use but we do not have any TM zone property so anyone seeking to land in that zoning district would still need to come through the rezoning legislative process. In which we also get to approve or deny. Yes sir. Thank you. Great. There, are there any other items that we need to add once that was a sanding earlier. We're publishing this item now on our web site принcedf for the sleep with the BL June 22. You can see yüksepanie.org. We had a subgroup on what other now claim the subgroup. School commitment, 70 a comparison многиеある decree a didn't protect themselves so they could stop that. Can you walk us through or assure us that these revisions to the ordinance that involved power that you believe we have adequate protections if the data center comes in and gets approved we haven't missed anything here where neighbors would be protected from from utilities that have to be brought in? Certainly the additional regulations have a site assessment requirement which we talked about at our last meeting which one of those is water use estimates and public utilities evaluation so they would need to as part of their legislative approval process at the CUP and rezoning demonstrate that they are adequate utility infrastructure to support the use of that particular location or if upgrades or other things would need to be made we would know about that kind of before a legislative action was taken so there is an opportunity to evaluate that at the time on a case-by-case basis specific to individual sites it's hard to evaluate it as a county level at the full county level you know we're not going to be able to do that. I think it's a good idea to do that. But we can look at individual sites as they come through this legislative process and evaluate if the infrastructure is there to support that particular use at that location. So if a developer came and told us that there's adequate power and we approved there something could still happen where they could decide later that they do need additional power? That's always that is always a possibility obviously we allow power generation as proposed would be a conditional use in many of those many districts including the RA district so you all would have a go at that. I think it's a good idea to have a go at a power generating facility in an adjoining district that wasn't considered as part of the previous action if necessary to improve it so I think making that change at the public utility section and not allowing it as a by right kind of across the board and breaking it into two different buckets will give you all the opportunity to evaluate those kind of issues in the future. Thank you very much. So I started with clarifications I apologize to the board usually let you all go first but I asked my questions are there any other questions about the presentation? Okay thank you very much. This is a public hearing Miss Phillips do we have anyone signed up? Linda Reid. Thank you bearing with us until almost nine o'clock. Please start with your name and Magisterial District please. Good evening my name is Linda Reid I'm still in the Shawnee district. I really appreciate the urgency with expressed by this committee to rectify the by right status that's currently in place. Last month this board had a very thoughtful discussion. Supervisor Jewell talked about constructing data centers that in industrial areas that already existed zoned that way. Supervisor Dunn also wisely wanted to see more input from experts especially as far as water usage is concerned. I do not see either of those reflected in this amendment. 200 feet buffers are still too little. These monstrosities have so many dire consequences to our valley than usual construction here car washes storage units. I'd like to bring up two more that haven't been included in the amendment. Number one is pollution. Data centers require many diesel powered generators. Tremendous air pollution comes from tiny particles in diesel exhaust including nitrogen oxide. These particles lodge deep into people's lungs and create permanent lung damage. These particles lodge deep into people's lungs and create permanent lung damage. These particles lodge deep into people's lungs and create permanent lung damage. They also contribute to acid rain as well as smog. They also contribute to acid rain as well as smog. I think it's interesting and relevant to know what city in America has the most pollution. You'd think it was Chicago, Gary, Indiana, LA, Pittsburgh. No, it's Bakersfield, California. You'd think it was Chicago, Gary, Indiana, LA, Pittsburgh. No, it's Bakersfield, California. They have a community of about 400,000 with some industry. They're surrounded by farm land. But the biggest factor why it's ranked the highest polluted city is that it's nestled in mountain ranges. But the biggest factor why it's ranked the highest polluted city is that it's nestled in mountain ranges. mountain ranges and the polluted air just hovers there. It doesn't go anywhere. The people who live there cannot even see the mountains anymore. I do not have to point out the obvious comparison. The second thing besides pollution is waste management. Much of the hardware like servers, storage, and networking equipment has to be replaced every two to five years, creating literally mountains of e-waste. This equipment contains very hazardous materials that can leach into our water supply and our soils. Nothing in here addresses that. In 2022, Warren County Board of Supervisors just simply removed the data center's buy-right capacity. Loudoun County Board of Supervisors also ended the buy-right distinction just three weeks ago on March 18th. With all due respect, may I recommend that we simply end the data center's buy-right status here and give the Planning Commission time to prepare a proposal that is thorough so we can make a good decision that includes real restrictions not only on noise pollution, which I think they've done a great job, but also water usage, air pollution, and waste management. The costs of data centers to our health and safety far outweigh the revenue deficit. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I am so sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Thank you, Board members for your kind attention. The mantra is spend historically and doın the best you can. This is one of the decisions that connections throughout the legislature made. It's a source of waterんで level water adequate I would put in the screening and lots of space. I forgot. Now my mind is blank. The border between the setback. That's what I'm thinking. Lots of space for the setback. I just loved what you said about having every data center be a special project and plan it out very well where it's going to go. There are huge things and they will create huge change. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Seeing no one, I'll close the citizen comment portion of this item. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make the motion we approve this. We have a motion. Do we have a second? We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman, regarding the 200-foot setback, I'd like Mr. Pearson to address that because I was very adamant, about 400 feet. I want him to explain why 200, we're starting with 200, but, or Mr. Klein. We looked at that requirement. 200 is going to be what most counties have as a maximum. It is a minimum, not a maximum. So looking to our neighbors, I believe it's allowing county opportunities with setbacks. A lot of those counties actually have less. In our research, the combination of setbacks, screening, generator enclosures, hours of operation, testing, cycling, mechanical equipment screening, and our noise standard, and we did lower the noise, maximum noise threshold allowed. The combination of those items will otherwise mitigate the impact that we would otherwise, that may not be offset by a setback. Further, it is a legislative action. We'll be giving a go at each one of these projects, should they want to locate here in the county, taking into consideration their noise study, their maximum height, their height desired, and all the other site specific features that you guys get into on a case-by-case basis on where it's located and what's adjoining it. I think you'll have more than a fair shot at it. Again, that 200 foot setback is a minimum setback. Doesn't mean they can't make it greater than that if the site dictates a need to increase that setback. Thank you, Mr. Klein. That's what I wanted you all to hear. This is a minimum. It's not a maximum. So, as we go down this road, we can now negotiate with a company, if they were to come in, and not only about the setback, but the screening. And when you talk about data centers, there's a lot more that goes into it. They actually want to have the screening and the protection in place as part of their security package. So, it just gives us an opportunity of setting a standard and then working off that standard. So, I just wanted to make sure that was thrown out there. Thank you. Any other comments? Mr. Chairman, just one other comment, addressing the water issue. And Mr. Klein, if you'd like to address this too. But between the time we had our last meeting and tonight, I did have some discussions with people dealing with the water issue. The water usage has evolved significantly, so there's a whole lot less water usage on a data center using techniques today versus what was done 10 years ago. Mr. Klein, if you'd like to go and make any other comments on that, or Mr. Pearson, if you'd like to make any other comments on that, that would be helpful. But the water usage of 10 years ago and the water usage today running the same system is significantly less. And there's ways to mitigate that, and there's ways to reuse that water as opposed to having one time in, one time out. Mr. Pearson, if you'd like to address, please do so. Yeah. Wow. Sorry about that. We can hear you. Thanks. The technology has evolved greatly since then. The original data centers weren't in, and there's a lot of options for it. Many of the ones that we have spoken to that are potentially looking at the site here consider all of those options depending upon the site constraints, the water availability, and how it factors into their overall business model. But same as the concern the chairman expressed about how these things are served by the electric lines and how they could carve up your community, it's something that we really need to think critically about during the legislative approval process. So if somebody wants to put one out in Gore, nowhere near an electrical line, nowhere near an existing substation, they're going to run electrical lines to it in order to serve that. So beyond the ordinance amendment, I think it's prudent to think about comprehensive planning, about where we best want to see these things, and location to high electric transmission facilities. And then, Mr. Dunn, to your point, those options exist, and we are going to require them, in accordance with the ordinance, to provide water use estimates as part of the submission package for your consideration, and you can evaluate that during either the rezoning or the conditional use process. And we have seen them across the Commonwealth already proffer or condition gallons per day caps at what they will be drawing from the system because of that concern. There are air chillers that use practically none, and then there are evaporative systems that use a lot, and there's technology in between those two as well. I hope that helps. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Any other comments from the Board before we go to a vote? I know I appreciate public comment. I personally will vote in favor. That way we have some protections established. There's no reason we can't go back and look at any of the concerns raised tonight. We could take up e-waste at the time or even in advance of that to see if we need an ordinance for that. We could take that to Public Works and discuss that with the landfill, how they're situated, should they get a big influx of e-waste. I love the air out here. I've lived in places where the air isn't so great. In Bakerfields, California, I have a good friend ever since college who lives out there. Their air is mainly ruined by the mountains and the way the airflow is in California, and he's a petroleum engineer. So they have a lot of petroleum industry out there, and that's what's causing it, not data centers. But your point is still the same. I think it's absolutely fair that we think about that as part of anything that might come to mind. So I personally am in favor of approving this ordinance, but continuing to receive comments from the public and maybe perfecting it as needed as we go along. Again, I want to reinforce, no one would have by right if we passed this today to come in and build it. So we would get to review anything that was proposed to be built in the county. Supervisor Dunn? Mr. Chairman, just for the record, this can be further amended as we go along, correct? Correct. It could be changed again. Thank you. If we've got a plan in place. Thank you. If anyone discovers something that we've missed that's important, like some of the items brought up tonight. Very good. If there's no other discussion, we'll move to a vote on approving the ordinance. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye. The ordinance is amended, and we now have restrictions on these items. Thank you. Item 13, nothing in Planning Commission Business Board Liaison Reports. Do we have any? Yes, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Liero? Last Wednesday, the second the Planning Commission met, they took up three items of business, rezoning 02-25 of Stevenson Depot, commercial submitted to rezone plus or minus 2.78 acres from B2 General Business Zoning District to B2 General Business. That was approved unanimously by the Planning Commission. That will come to the Board of Supervisors on April 23rd. Second issue was Conditional Use Permit 03-25 for Eson Yosefi. That was approved unanimously by the Planning Commission. That will come to the Board of Supervisors on April 23rd. Second issue was Conditional Use Permit 03-25 for Eson Yosefi. That was submitted for a slaughterhouse farm market and event center on plus or minus 45.96 acres in the Bat Creek Magisterial District. That was denied unanimously by the Planning Commission. That also will come to the Board of Supervisors on April 23rd. The last of the three, Conditional Use Permit 01-25 for Vacluse Holding, incorporated, submitted for a special event facility restaurant and campground in the Bat Creek Magisterial District. That was approved unanimously by the Planning Commission. Once again, that will also come to the Board of Supervisors on April 23rd. And that is all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Any other Board liaison reports? Hearing none, Board of Supervisors, citizen comments. This is a time for citizens to speak on anything concerning the county. Do we have anyone signed up? Deanne Kenney. Deanne Kenney, Gainsborough District. Good evening. And I'm here tonight because of the last budget meeting that I viewed on television. And I saw that it was brought up about the safety and security at our schools. And I brought it up because of the incident at Jordan Springs. Mrs. Slaughter and a couple of other Board members felt that it was necessary to appropriate the funds to go ahead and expedite putting those metal detectors in the schools. And I'm here today to support the efforts of the Board of Supervisors on putting those metal detectors in all of our schools. Knowing that the safety of our kids come first. I spoke with Mr. Jewell this week about this subject. And he agrees that this is an investment in the future and the safety of our kids in Frederick County Public Schools. Mr. Ludwig, on the other hand, has a different point of view. To him, it was one incident that wasn't an actual threat. And with all things with Frederick County Public Schools, it was a very serious one. And I think that the Board of Supervisors needs more information about the systems that the school board, Dr. Hummer's staff, and the Sheriff's Department shows. He feels that there might be something better out there than what they picked. Once again, the Board of Supervisors is to decide if you're going to give the money to them or not. You don't get to discuss, evaluate, or choose the system. You can never be sure that the system that's in place for their needs is the Baek (- system Mr. Ludwig We 가지 said the state of their lorsqu what is predatory THEY WOULD Like to know six, seven and nine-year-olds brought guns to school in their backpack and they were fired, discharged within that backpack. I want to quote Mr. Ludwig. I have seen one report of one incident. I'd hate to throw out a million dollars that may work or may not work. Those systems do work. And to me, you have put the value of a child's life in Frederick County at $850,000. I hope that that what he said sounded as bad to you as it did to me. And pushing this decision whether you give the funds or not out another two weeks is going out of your lane. The question is, are you going to give them the money or aren't you? It's not your decision to make what's best, what system is best. So, waiting is not the best decision. But I guess you have to decide. Is $850,000 the value of a child? That's the end of the list. Is there anyone else who would like to speak tonight? Vaughn Whitaker, Gainesboro District. Recently, I was invited by Frederick County. I was invited by Frederick County. I was invited by Frederick County. He flowed out all his way and I was invited by Frederick County Police because, he, the more we spoke together, the more I began to connect with the evolved group and the water community that exists here. We were noodle sized, you know, much just asking you to step up and come on the geological side of things, eating the natural products there. I think it's incredibly, incredibly exciting. Just because this has been just one of the most intact practices and seen based on evidence throughout it. Virginia have moved to take the water take the fluoride out of the water. I would suggest making recommendations to the board that we would do the same. This fluoride has been linked to learning disabilities. If we're really concerned about the children, let's do something about this. Also I noticed I went to the Health Department to find out how they were keeping data on when they're drilling a well. And years ago they drilled a well and if they came through an overlayer there was no disclosure of that information how deep that overlayer was. Now there are regulations where when a well driller is drilling the hole that if they strike an overlayer where surface water is coming into the well they have to case that out because these what cause contaminants from surface water are not going to be able to get out of the well. So I think that's a good thing to consider. I think that's a good thing to consider. I think that's a good thing to consider. Out at the quarry I asked if they did any surveying or mapping of any of their overlays that you could see clearly along the walls of the excavation in the quarry and none was done whatsoever. So this to me is really increases the risk of surface contaminations of all sorts. Bacteria from cattle operations, chemicals from agricultural operations and also would greatly increase the suspended particles cause that's what an overlayer is. It's a fracture in the mantle as you're drilling through your mantle and all this would contribute to that high volume of suspended particles that they're having in this reservoir. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Leslie Spencer, Gainsborough. Thank you so much Supervisor Lockridge for trying to mitigate with the farm property. I really appreciate that. I wanted to say something but I didn't want to speak against the Russell family. 14 percent of our farmland has been lost and Frederick County at the same time that our country lost only seven percent. So saving it here is great and this whole problem or finding solutions reminds me of one of my favorite songs. There's a tree out in the backyard that never has been broken by the wind. Our love will last forever if we're strong enough to bend and I really feel that there are some things that we can think about and do. That can help communities maybe be inspired just how the Amish work together. I have some ideas but I don't think I don't know how to take them. You could reduce the amount of events to 50 a year and I think that it could allow any family one day of rest on the weekends and if they did have a busy weekend, they could have a day of rest. And if they did have a busy weekend, they could take two many weeks off each week and they wanted one slow day to farm outside, in the quiet, they could have peace. I think that that would be a great start. You could screen the porta-potties with trees that could help mitigate the smell. You could block lots of screenings for lights into the neighbors that could help that buffers the sound as well. Any kind of extra tree amount could help with the state ofcorruption. The last one I want to mix in is demarcating the trees. stampeding of 150 people on the environment, you know, to pick up some of the pollutants there or to help the land recover. And yeah, I think that's the start. That's just a few ideas, but as Loudoun County said that they have three billion dollars a year in revenue from agritourism, so maybe there's going to be more here and we could approach this with some good ideas and understand that special use is a special use. So we're giving them special permission and maybe we could help the community come together to mitigate their concerns. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Seeing no one, I'll close. Citizen comments. Board of Supervisors comments. Do we have any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Jewell. Two things. I just really want to thank Mr. Klein and Mr. Pearson, all. Everybody worked on the Ordinances for Data Centers for us. I know that was a long. process. A lot of work went into that and we just appreciate that. And I want to thank Mr. Bolhoffer and staff for all the work that went in the last three months during this budget cycle. We spent a lot of time here but there was a lot of work done in the background. A lot of late nights and just thank you for the time you put in for this and for the county. Thank you. Any other supervisor comments? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. I'll just second Mr. Jewell's comments. Mr. Bolhoffer, Mr. Pearson and your staff appreciate all the work. Thank you. Thank you. Any other comments? Yes Mr. Chair. I'd like to just point out on the issue of the metal detectors. I believe that is, correct me if I'm wrong, Chair, Chairman of the Finance Committee. The Finance Committee will meet next Wednesday morning at 830 and I believe that that's going to be a topic of discussion. I think Dr. Hammer is planning on being here to present. We know that there's a few schools already that have operating metal detectors and I think the proposal is to expand that to all the buildings. So we'll be hearing from him next week and hopefully we can, you know, take that information and make a decision on that. Thank you. Any other comments? I just want to add to that please. You are correct. It will be next Wednesday and I am I wrong in stating that that he was not asking for the funds that day. Was that accurate? Yes, I was going to go over that. Okay, so it wasn't like we turned that down. We just wanted, at least from my perspective, more information. I'm actually on public safety as well. I've brought this to our sheriff. I think it's part of public safety. I wanted some input from our SROs. They are the ones that deal with our four metal detectors currently at our schools. So and to my knowledge the Frederick County Schools would have not be implementing these until the beginning of 25, fall of 25 for the school year. So I want to rest your concern that, but I don't think we delayed it, because he wasn't asked, actually asking for the request yet but we are making motion, are making movement and pursuing that. So thank you. That's all I've got. Thank you. Any other comments? I just want to address the metal detectors if comment was made here tonight. I don't follow social media I'm sure. It's been discussed on social media. just to start with your point, Frederick County Public Schools did not ask us to fund metal detectors at our last work session. We were just notified that a request would be coming and some board members were anxious to take that seriously. The superintendent's actual plan was to bring it to our finance department to evaluate given that it's nearly 1 million dollars and I think that's the right way to go. Mr. Monk, the previous chairman of the school board, also donates his time to serve on our finance committee. As chairman of the school board, they've looked at this before and he noted at our meeting that there are some more advanced metal detectors that can image better, help the kids roll through quicker so they're not caught outside in the weather. You know if if you get false alarms you tend to just wave people through a metal detector because it gets tiring after a while to have constant beeps. If you can have the the right system so that you catch anything bad but you don't get a lot of false alarms, that's what I'm hoping we can consider. In addition, the superintendent mentioned this is one piece of a multi-layer security system that the schools have and I've never been briefed on that multi-layer security system. I think it's smart for us to to hear what the schools propose and their overall security. You know we hear this life of a child or life of a person argument and sometimes it's silly. That's how governments end up being emotional overspending, and overtaxing the public. Even if we knew that eight hundred and fifty thousand dollars spent on this would prevent an injury, how do we know that using eight hundred and fifty thousand dollars somewhere else such as security doors and cameras or buying another fire truck, how do we know that money wouldn't save more lives? I mean that is the purpose of this board, not to buy everything possible out there but to decide what we can afford and what the best use of it is. So I think we're on the right path. I appreciate you wanting to take it up in public safety as well. So we hear the financial options that the schools are bringing to us and then we talk to the SROs and see how they would implement them and what they recommend and then bring it back to this board. I think we can move quickly on that and give it some good thought. So those are my comments. Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman I move we adjourn. Second. We have a motion and a second. All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We are adjourned.
