Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2026-03-18
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=337
========================================================================

Hi. I'm on a work Nyarlathotep. People of all ages want to know who I am. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That takes us to item four, adoption of agenda. Is there a motion to adopt the agendas presented? So moved. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? Item five is meeting minutes from our January 7th meeting. Any comments, edits, additions, deletions for that one? If not, I'd be glad to entertain a motion for adoption as presented. So moved. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All those in favor? Aye. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? We also have the January 21st meeting minutes. Any additions, corrections, or deletions? If not, I'd be glad to entertain a motion for adoption as presented. So moved. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Opposed, likewise? Very well. That takes us to committee reports. Committee reports to my right. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good evening. The Historic Resources Advisory Board, HRAB, met on Friday, February 20th. We had a few things that we talked about. First, Winchester Gateway. That was ultimately tabled until the applicant come back with a third-party review of the impact study that had been done and some renderings of what the project was going to look like. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's all. Thank you very much. Any other committee reports to my right? To my left. Any committee reports? Mr. Bosworth? Frederick Water met last night. We're starting the budget process. We're establishing budget for next year. And we are continuing to work on our strategic plan. That's it. Very good. We have Ms. Sandra Bloom with us this evening from Winchester Planning Commission. Good evening. Good evening. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our last meeting, which was held yesterday. First, we held a discussion about when to hold work sessions. We're going to make an effort to only hold work sessions when it's really necessary. This is meant to be respectful to our applicants because we realize attending a midweek, midday meeting can be pretty burdensome for people. So if applicants have something like a CUP about something simple, we don't want to request their presence unless we really have a meeting. we really need it. We didn't quite land on exact criteria yet, so we are still working out the details on when to hold work sessions and when not to. Next, we recommended approval of a zoning ordinance text amendment that will allow one short-term rental unit per building within the B1 district and the special taxation districts, basically downtown. While we don't want downtown to be overrun with short-term rentals, we also want to be more flexible than we have been about short-term rentals because it could attract tourism, which brings vitality to downtown. Allowing one unit per building is something of a compromise between unlimited short-term rentals and only allowing the grandfathered ones that currently exist. Next, we recommended approval of a different zoning text amendment that will do two things to help retain Winchester's historic character. The first is allowing the flexibility for the zoning administrator to determine which side of a corner lot counts as the front. Right now, our ordinance thinks that only the shorter side counts as the front, but there are plenty of examples where in real life the short side doesn't present as the front. So this will actually help us match the neighborhood and the street that the corner lot is on much better. The second thing it's going to do is allow front setbacks to match the rest of the street much better. The second thing it's going to do is allow front setbacks to match the rest of the street much better as well. Without getting into all of the tall weeds, we're going to allow new buildings to better match the average setback line of the whole street, not just your two adjacent neighbors, because if you do that all the way down a street, it can result in a zigzag pattern. So basically we're allowing a little more flexibility to match the historic characteristic of a potentially historic street. Lastly, we've recommended approval of a PUD for 43 townhomes on Commerce Street. This was a split vote, however, with the nays voicing concerns about some of the house's proximity to railroad tracks and the property lane. After that, we adjourned. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Bloom. I have one report from the Transportation Committee, which met on February 23rd. Probably the most notable item that came out of that meeting, there are a number of studies that are continuing and in the pipeline and a variety of studies county-wide, but the biggie is exit 317. This is Route 7. The bridge is going to get redecked this summer, and as you might imagine, that's going to have an impact on traffic. So if you use Route 7, be aware of that. The goal is to do as much work as possible on weekends, but there's no assurance it will all occur on the weekend. So the goal is also to keep one lane open in each direction while the work's going on, and we'll see how that goes. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bloom. I'm going to go ahead and see how that works out. It's going to be a mess. With that, we have, again, we're honored to have two of our Board of Supervisors members with us tonight, Mr. Gibbormont and Dr. Orndorff. Good evening, sir. That happens to me occasionally, too. Mr. Chairman, Commissioners, the Board of Supervisors met on March the 11th, 2026. One item from the Planning Commission resigning of number 01-26 of 700 Ross Street. Public hearing was held, and subsequent to the public hearing, the Board did approve the rezoning on a six with Supervisor Aikens recusing himself from voting on that. Also, the Planning staff reported that there were Board members that had an entrance and an ordinance to amend and modify the county's buffer standards when apartments are located adjacent to single-family homes. Staff was seeking direction, and the Board moved to direct staff to amend County Code Chapter 165 and to authorize the necessary public hearings to do so. The amendment should seek to evaluate and amend the residential separation buffers relative to multifamily structures. More specifically, while we think that this standard could be restrictive, the Board should consider the best practices and ensure that dissimilar adjoining housing types are still adequately buffered and that the overall height of the residential units is considered as well. And that passed on a 7-0 and is on the work list for county staff. Very good. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much, sir. Okay, that completes all our committee reports, I believe. That takes us to the citizen comments. This is time for citizens to address the Planning Commission on any topic that's not a public hearing this evening. If you'd like to address the Planning Commission, please come to the podium, state your name, Magistral District, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anybody like to address the Planning Commission? Seeing none, we will move on to public hearings. Item 8A, rezoning of plasters, HVAC. Mr. Bittner, good evening, sir. This is rezoning of 1.21 acres from B2, General Business District, with proffers to B3, Industrial Transition. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Eric Bittner, Planner 2. As stated, this is a rezoning of 1.21 acres from B2, General Business, with proffers to B3, Industrial Transition, with proffers. It's located at 161 Commonwealth Court in the Bat Creek District and was previously rezoned from B3 to B2 in RAZ 0916. Here we have an aerial of the County, the location of the rezoning is dotted here in red, showcasing its location in the Bat Creek District. And then this is a close-up of an aerial of the property. It is already built and constructed with a structure. One thing that staff will note is that if approved, it will create a nonconformity as the property currently exceeds the 25% open space requirement within the B3 District. To that end, the applicant has proffered remediation. And then this is the current zoning. It is currently a rezoning of 1.21 acres from B2, General Business District, with proffers to B3, Industrial Transition, with proffers to B3, Industrial Transition, and with proffers to B2, Industrial Transition, and with proffers to B2, Industrial Transition. It is outlined here in purple with REH in orange. It is butted directly by B3 Industrial Transition District and to the rear of butts, the M2 Industrial General District. There's also some B2 General Business District behind it as well. This is the long-range land use map, showcasing the future land use for the parcel to be business. The Kernstown Land Use Plan specifies that the business section of this is to enhance the industrial and commercial aspects that already exist. This is the long-range land use map, showcasing the future land use for the parcel to exist. To that end, the industrial transition district is an appropriate use as it would enhance those uses. The proffer statement that is being proposed does have some land use restrictions, specifically a gas station with or without a convenience store, movie theaters including a drive-in theater, and parks. These uses would not be considered to be advancing of the business long-range land use designation. And also the owner will comply with the state of the code section of the landscape area. This would be done with a site plan and performed prior to the issuance of a change of use permit. Additionally, there's a proposed proffer payment for 10 cents per square foot for any new building square footage for county fire and rescue services. The contribution is to be paid at the time of the change of use permit. With that, there is currently no expansion proposed with the structure. A couple of notes for the planning commission here. The proposed rezoning is in conformance with the comprehensive plan and advances down to area plan of business. And proffer A1 removes uses that would not advance the comprehensive plan and the proffer statement addresses the nonconforming status that would be created as well. This is the location of the site with the general development plan. This area outlined in red here is the area that's being proposed to be turned into a permeable surface to bring it into compliance with our landscape area requirement. The accrual action, of course, is a requirement that is not in compliance with the landscape area requirement. The accrual action, of course, is a requirement that is not in compliance with the landscape area requirement. The accrual action, of course, is a requirement that is not in compliance with the landscape area requirement. This is presented as a public hearing item. Staff are seeking a recommendation from the planning commission to follow the public hearing to forward to the Board of Supervisors. That public hearing for the Board of Supervisors is tentatively scheduled for April 8. At this point, the applicant and staff are available for any questions. Questions to my left. Questions to my right. Mr. Thomas, can you enjoy this? Would you go back to the slide? Okay, we can do this ourselves if you wanted to. I can take this one. And I don't think this is a common question. I'd like to make sure that we're making this a common question. We need a committee to consider the context of the conversation. Mr. Thomas? Would you go back to the slide? Okay. Now, that area you have circled in red, what are they going to have to do to that? So with that area, this portion is currently paved. That pavement will need to be removed and landscaped as permeable surface to bring it to a 25% landscaped area. Okay. That seems a little unnecessary. So the purpose of that is that our B3 industrial district has open and landscaped requirements, mainly to deal with stormwater erosion control issues. That is more intensive than the B2 district, which requires a 15%. To meet that percentage, they would need to reduce the impervious area. But they're not changing anything else on the site? No. No, sir. While the changes aren't currently being presented there, any changes to that use would present to the B3 district would need to meet those standards. And for the proposal to the area is a use that's deemed by right within the B3 but not within the B2. Okay. I guess I'm still puzzled. If we would accept it for a B2 and they're making absolutely no changes to the site, the runoff is going to be exactly the same as it was, before. Why are we requiring them to take out paving and put permeable areas in? It doesn't make any sense to me. If there's no other changes, they're not increasing the drainage, the flow, or anything on the site, so why is this, other than our ordinance requires it, why is this needed? I can add, in addition to Mr. Bittner's comments, it's not so much about runoff as being, but the open space standards, which seven years ago we signed up for the zoning district for one year. It's 14 of the number discussion is built on that point because you need to bring the open space standards for that zoning district, and when they trigger the change of use permit to take it to the new use that's allowed in that zoning district, they need to bring the site up to compliance with the zoning district that it's in. The open space standards are just different between the two zoning districts. It used to actually be B2 or. It's not this applicant. It was previous owners. But when they take it back to B3, change the use again, the site has to conform with the zoning district standards under the ordinance. Okay. I understand that, but I think that might be something we ought to look at in our ordinance. It doesn't make any logical sense to me. If you don't agree with the open space standards in the ordinance, then that's certainly something we could evaluate in an ordinance amendment, yeah. Well, I can't understand why we have different open space requirements for B2 and B3. It doesn't. Yeah, that could definitely be a potential. Maybe somebody can explain that to me some other time, not tonight, because it doesn't affect this rezoning. Certainly. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Bittner to my right, to my left? Thank you, Mr. Bittner. Thank you. Would the applicant like to make a presentation? Good evening. This is Marissa Whitaker with Greenway Engineering. I just, you know, reiterate what Eric had mentioned. This was B3. It had been rezoned to B2. Now it's being rezoned to B3 again. It's just a change of use. And as we had already discussed, there will be a portion of the pavement being removed so that we can meet the open space requirements. And just if you all had any questions for me, I'm here to answer them. Any questions for the applicant to my left, to my right? Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. This is a public hearing. If anyone would like to speak for or against this rezoning, this would be the time to do so. Please come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anyone like to speak? Seeing none, I will close the public hearing. Discussion? Any comments? Anyone else got anything to say? I think it's pretty straightforward. Agreed. Yes. Yep. Although I will say I agree with Commissioner Thomas. Removal of the pavement seems like an unnecessary step. I understand why it's being required. With that, this is Back Creek. Yeah, Mr. Chairman, I'll move for approval of rezoning 0206 as presented. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. The motion is to approve the rezoning as presented. A yes vote would be for the rezoning. No vote would be against it. So we'll start the voting. Mr. Whitaker? Whitaker, yes. Crane, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kern, yes. Kozo, yes. Thomas, yes. Sneddon, yes. Boturf, yes. McKay, yes. Brumback, yes. Kamana, yes. Chair votes yes and the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on April the 8th. Next item is revocation of a conditional use permit number 0324 for 172 Firehouse LLC. Good evening, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Planning Commission, again, this is a revocation of a conditional use permit that was approved for property at 1.5. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. on site. The name of the business was Cut Above Landscaping. That's what came before you. The property owner had applied for a conditional use permit or CUP after Frederick County filed a criminal complaint and actually was heard in General District Court on July 12, 2023. At that time, one of the court had given the applicant a little time to get the conditional use because of our process. It takes, you know, anywhere from 30 to 90 days. They actually applied for the conditional use permit on July 13, 2023. It was like right after court. They applied and it was approved by the Board of Supervisors in August of 2024. Since then, the, well, I should say the conditions were assigned by the Board of Supervisors were basically the all review agency comments you could apply with at all times. There were some hours of operations there that they were limited to. While they were doing there, there were some changes for snow removal and storm remission and customer visits were limited. There were no more than 60 employees to be on the property at any one time. And that's all good and fine because the conditional use made sense. However, condition number four for all that to be put in place was a minor site plan was required. And that minor site plan should be approved by Frederick County and the improvements shown on the site plan be completed prior to establishing the site plan. And finally, any expansion or change you should require a new conditional use permit. Again, the business has been in operation. This is the key to the violation. And as you're well aware of, we do follow up on our conditional use permits because we do have certain requirements, the site plan, the engineer gets some advice. But also, the citizens usually call in and complain, hey, the CUP was approved, nothing's going on. So it has been operating for two years in violation of the condition number four and against the minor site plan. It should be approved by Frederick County. The key thing is all the improvements had to be shown on the plan and in place before we would even give them to the CO if there's any change to use of the site, or a business license that has not occurred. Now, the owner did apply for a minor site plan on July 21, 2025, and staff did review it. We started working with the engineer at the time that the applicant had hired. Staff reviewed the plan and sent comments out on July 29, 2025, and could not grant approval to the plan. There were three or four comments that weren't approved. addressed and still haven't been addressed, still haven't heard anything, though, I will note for the record that the applicant is going to explain a little more how they talked to their engineer, sort of, I'm not going to say the 11th hour, but as they were working with them, but I'm going to let them explain that to you. The owner still has not addressed any of the outstanding issues that were on that conditional use permit that Stafford reviewed and therefore is still in violation of the conditional use permit. Now, the Code of Virginia, and if I can just divert a little bit, being as we don't really revoke CUPs that much, and the last one we actually did was 25 years ago, we actually revoked one for violations. We also had one come before this board and the board supervisor about seven years ago and had to do with a violation of the hours of operation. In that instance, that applicant reapplied for the conditional use permit to change their hours of operation. The board gave them time, Staff worked with them, it went away, but they're all complaint basis. That conditional use permit five years ago was the site plan was in place, they had violated one of their conditions, they were brought through this body, and the other body meets every other Wednesday. So I just want to make that clear because in your zoning ordinance, there is provisions for that. The revocation is almost like a CUP that you would see if you were here today. It's the same thing. A person comes in, they apply for a conditional use permit, you all review it. It goes to the board, the board approves it, and it's the same procedure. So basically, one of the things that the board can do by resolution in a revocation of any conditional use permit, that consideration of the revocation shall precede the following procedure set forth by approving a conditional use permit. Following a recommendation of the planning commission, the board may revoke an actual CUP for the following reasons. Again, you all get the first bite, you review it, as you're supposed to, as we do for rezoning any land use action. So number one, failure to establish or discontinue the approved conditional use permit. If the approval of the conditional use permit has not been established within two years of approval or has been discontinued for two years, the conditional use permit may be revoked. B, a repeat or continuing violations of this chapter, including violations of conditions being placed on the permit as part of the revocation. And three, any fraudulent or false or misleading information that was supplied by the applicant for the conditional use permit. And again, you're looking at that's the standard. You'll have to review if you send it forward to the board of supervisors. And what the board would have to act on, too. So finally, any recommended action. Again, because this minor site plan hasn't come in. It's been two years that they've been operating out there. They did try to get the site plan in late, be it, but it came in and we haven't heard anything. When I say we, I mean Frederick County hasn't. We haven't reviewed it. Review comment letters went out, told them what had to happen. We haven't heard anything. So that's why they're revoking it. We're going to review it in front of you tonight. Following the public hearing, staff is seeking a recommendation for the planning commission to forward to the board of supervisors on this CUP application. Now, one of the questions that's come out, and again, some of you have never seen this. I think Mr. Thomas and I were talking about this the other night. He was the last one to see the revocation because he's been on here for some time. And the one seven years ago was the same way. So what actions could happen tonight? We need a recommendation from the board. You can vote to revoke it. You can action. You can actually extend or table it to allow the applicant to address something. I'm with the applicant and can speak and plead his case. Or you can add additional conditions, which would mean a whole other conditional use permit. That's kind of where you're at in the history we've done it and the procedure. So with that, Mr. Chairman, I'll answer any questions you or any of the planning commissioners have. Mr. Steve Petler, who's representing this application here, and he can speak to any other questions you've got on this application. Thank you. Any questions to my left? Yes, Mr. Steve. So in the beginning, you said it was originally heavy truck traffic or parking or something like that. And then it transitioned over to this cut above. It was a combination of both. What staff does is when they go out to a site on a complaint, we cite that complaint or we cite the violator with everything we see on site. They had some tractor trailers were parked out there that were untagged. That was part of what they were citing. And they were running the landscape. They were doing the landscaping business. Now, through the conditional use permit and site plan, that would clear that all up. And there the violation would go away. So currently this is zoned what, residential? No, it's RA, row areas. Okay, row area. Yeah. Okay. So, okay, that would trigger it. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Any questions to my right, Mr. Thomas? If we recommend that this be revoked, it will go to the board on the 8th of April. Yes, I believe so, sir. I'm looking at the list here. So they would have between now and when it goes to the board, they have the opportunity to come up with a site plan that's needed to get it approved or get the board to go ahead and deny the revocation. Can the board table it for 30 days if they shouldn't do anything? I mean, we're looking at almost 30 days between now and when it comes to the board. Okay. Any other questions? Yes, to answer your question, like I said, this is, I would say, think of this as a conditional use permit in front of you today, okay, or rezoning. If an applicant needs time, a given time, this body can actually ask that. It's one of the actions you can do. Now, the revoking, you're correct. If you decide, hey, we agree with the position of the staff, it's been two years, they've been operating without a business license, operating on a site plan, and they get it in prior to going to the board or progress, that's up to the board to make that final decision. If they want to extend it out. As I explained at some of the actions you have, Mr. Chairman, you could ask the table this if you wanted to, and I'm going to let the applicant, because, like I said, they've moved forward since we got here, see what time they want, we'll request, or you could say, hey, we're revoking, let the board deal with it. So they've been operating without a business license, too? That is correct. They cannot get the site, they cannot get the business license to the site plan that has been approved and everything's been put into place. So we're to believe that 30 days is the right time? Yes. We're to believe that 30 additional days after two years will improve the situation. That was just a comment. Well, Mr. Patley can answer that question better than I can. So, I have a question. So, I mean, this business has been in operation for 10 plus years. I mean, have they had a business license before that? They actually didn't. That's a good question. They actually operated on a different site before they got this site. We do complaint only basis. As a whole. We do policy to the Board of Supervisors. It only came to our attention in 21 that the applicant had moved to this protect our site off of Round Hill Road. And that's the start of the process. They actually were cited in 21. They were starting to work to a conditional use permit. What had happened was, and why we did not get them to the court system is, after a year for any zoning violations, you have to recite someone. That's what started the process again. They did. The owner of the company actually was operating off a different site. It was legal at that time. Business license wise. Right. Yeah. But that's why they can't get their license because of this whole site hang up. That is correct. Okay. Thank you. Mr. DeHaven. I saw your. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Quick question. So, the site plan, the issue that the site plan hasn't been filed, that site plan also included some improvements, didn't it? Some screenings, some fencing, things like that to help address some of the issues that neighbors had raised. When we say it hasn't been filed, what does that mean? When we say it hasn't been filed, does that mean all those items that were supposed to help mitigate concerns of neighbors haven't been implemented? That's a, the site plan was filed. It gets reviewed by staff. Okay. What happens, Mr. DeHaven, is staff reviews it. What we do is we end up sending, in this case, there were about six comments that had to be addressed. They weren't addressed for me to sign, for the zoning administrator to sign the site plan. Yes. There were complaints. There were complaints, and you're correct, that that happened. It more or less just stopped any communication working with the engineer on the four or five comments that we had at the time. And also from review agencies, too, because as you're aware, when you all approve a conditional use permit, as you do any site plan works in Frederick County, there's other review agencies look at that. And those review agencies did review some of the parts of the site that needed to be looked for, like stormwater management. I know the Department of Health, we just, they reviewed some of the stuff, too. But it wasn't all implemented. We don't sign the site, Frederick County has not signed the site plan until all the checks in the box were done. So to answer your question, no, they, but they did apply, and it was reviewed. But the improvements have not been installed. No, no. To answer your direct question. Right. So several years after the initial, we still have mitigating items that aren't moving forward. That is correct, yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions to my right? Is there one more to my left? I thought I saw someone. So let me recap what I think I heard you tell Mr. Thomas. They've been operating without a business license for about four years, is that correct? I would say probably, I would say from the two years that we had cited them, yeah. Maybe longer, because they were cited in 21 on a different issue we're operating. We don't enforce the business license, we review it. I understand. But yeah, that's, that's. Right. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Petler. Thank you, Chairman Stow and members of the Planning Commission, I'm Steve Petler with Harrison & Johnston. I represent the applicant 172 Firehouse LLC. Really, I'm here to explain mea culpa on this, and it's better for me to put it in the context of a contract. I'm not sure that I want to put it in the context of a contract, but I'm not sure that that's the best way to put it. I think that's a good way to put it. I think that's a good way to put it. I don't know. I think that's a good way to put it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, I'm here to explain mea culpa on this, and it's better for me to put it in the context of a kind of a story with this whole business here. The Cut Above Landscaping moved this site many years ago, as Mr. Sneeden said. They were operating there. A new owner purchased the business in 2022. Right after that occurred, or soon after that occurred, there was a complaint that they didn't have a CUP. The owner who bought it, to my knowledge, didn't understand, just assumed apparently that they were authorized to do business there and kept doing business. They got cited for two different things. One was the tractor trailers. One was conducting the landscape business. The tractor trailers were the property owners' tractor trailers. Barbara Singus was the property owner, sole property owner at that time. As soon as the citations were made... The applicant started the process with the staff to see what can we do to rectify this, and they said, you need to get a CUP. They made the application for the CUP. The CUP got approved. They then went to do the minor site plan, and believe it or not, they had a very difficult time finding engineers that were affordable and available to do the plan. It took some time. They finally settled with a group called Racy Engineering. Racy Engineering. Racy Engineering has been representing the applicant with staff for the site plan. The site plan was submitted in July of 2025. There were comments that were given back at that time. The site plan then came up for a second review, I think it was in October of 2025, and additional comments were issued from the planning staff. They aren't very complicated, really. It's just some things you just need to show. We need to show differently on the site plan. That was communicated to the applicant and the engineer back in October of 2025. For whatever reason, I don't know why, the engineers didn't communicate with the owner or the staff in following up with those recommendations. I happened to be in a meeting with Mr. Pearson on a completely unrelated matter, and Mr. Pearson brought it to my attention, since he knew that I was associated with the applicant, and he said, I don't know why. I don't know why. I don't know why. The site plan was submitted to the applicant and said, hey, you know, we're not getting any response to these comments to get the site plan finalized. And that was probably a little over a month ago, maybe six weeks ago, that it was brought to my attention. As soon as that happened, I reached out to the applicant. He reached out to the engineer. And things are moving again. One of the comments that were from the agencies was from the health department. They had a question about the capacity of the septic tank. That I know was answered today by the engineers. They submitted a response to that to the Department of Health today. I also know that there was a meeting on site with the principal of the applicant, the attorney that represented them on the CUP, and the engineers. And they were told that there will be a site plan submitted next Monday or Tuesday that should address all the comments that were made. And that was from the planning staff on the version that had already been submitted. One of the issues that took some time to kind of puzzle through for the applicant with regard to that had to do with screening. The original proposal and the way the site plan was proposed initially had around the perimeter of the property, because it does have to be screened, because they have outdoor storage and materials at a landscape company. The original plan was to build a berm and to plant trees on that berm. On the second review with the planning staff of the site plan, it came up that that much dirt being moved would trigger additional permits that would have to be obtained in order to disturb that kind of land. So they had to come up with a solution that would avoid that, because it was just, it got into a whole different level of complexity and cost that wasn't contemplated when it was originally submitted in the summertime. So they were trying to figure out whether they could plant double rows of trees or whether the fence would be more appropriate, and they had to get pricing for all those different options to make sure they knew what was going on. They finally did that, and apparently they decided on which way they were going to move today, as I understand it. But things are moving. There was, the ball was dropped. I mean, I can't say anything to anybody here other than that. It's unfortunate. It's unfortunate for the applicant, I think, that his engineer, that he chose. He wasn't as diligent as we would have liked it to be, but that's what happened. What we're here to ask for today is for this body to table this for 30 days. We are certain that there will be a site plan submitted. Again, the comments that need to be addressed, if you were to look at them and review them, they're so minor, it's baffling to me why the engineer just didn't respond to them immediately to get it off his desk. Because there really isn't that much to do. But the applicant is the one who is responsible, ultimately. And I'm here on behalf of the applicant to ask this board, I'm sorry, this panel, commission, to table it for 30 days. We think everything will be in place by then. To address the issue with the business license, they can't get a business license until this site plan gets approved. It's not because they've been scoffing at the law. In fact, I know for sure they've been in contact with the, you know, the law enforcement. I don't know. I've been in contact with the law enforcement for a long time. I'm not sure if they are. They've been in contact with the county about getting a business license and they keep being told, not until this gets done can we issue one to you. So it's not because they're intentionally trying to avoid the business license. It's that they are not able to get it issued until this happens. And I will point out in closing, I've been in community, as soon as I got involved in this, I've been in communication with Mr. Charon to see what we could do to move this along as quickly as possible on the site plan side. And he was the one who pointed out to me that there is some precedent here to give some more time to the applicant to not revoke a business from being able to do business in Frederick County and generate tax revenues and all the good things, employee, staff, and all that that happens in these situations. And we would ask you to adopt that precedent tonight and table this for 30 days. And I'd be happy to answer any questions I can. From the commission. Any questions to my right, Mr. DeHaven? Thank you. Quick question again and back to improvements. So if the site plan hasn't been done, all the improvements that the applicant knew about from going through this process, none of those have been completed. Is that correct? No, because they didn't spend any money on it until they had an approved plan because of issues like this thing with the berm coming up. I'm not sure how many of you have gone through the process. I know Chairman Stowe has. It's a fluid, it's a dynamic process, the back and forth between the staff and exploring different options that are available because, you know, there's a lot of different ways you can screen a property and they cost different amounts and there's different issues involved with it that get discussed. So these things don't just happen, you know, first submission to get a rubber stamp. It's usually some back and forth between the applicant and the staff so they can explore their options. Then they have to price the options and decide which ones make sense and get the proof of approval of the staff. For whatever reason, that communication, it was going back and forth from the summertime until October. I cannot tell you. I am unable to make any excuses for anybody of why it didn't happen from October until six weeks ago when I was graciously informed about this from Mr. Pearson. But that is the case. I mean, it just stopped for that period of time. And not only have we picked it back up, we've lit a fire under the end. And we believe that they are now aware of how urgent this is and are acting accordingly. Just a quick follow-up question on that. Any of these changes that are required by the site plan, would any of those require a building permit or a land disturbance permit? And would the county issue that? Because what I'm looking at in the packet would indicate the real estate taxes on this parcel are delinquent as well. They've been paid today. Mr. Chair, that came to my attention. We reviewed that. Is there a need for that? Is there a need for that? Is there a need for that? Is there a need for that? Is there a need for that? Is there a need for that? The issue with that is the property is titled in two people's names. It's Ms. Singhas and 172 Firehouse LLC. The tax bill, if you look, is addressed to Ms. Singhas at her property. I do not represent Ms. Singhas. She did not inform 172 Firehouse or the company it cut above that she didn't pay the taxes and she didn't forward the bill. So that's the only thing I can say about that. As soon as it came to my attention that they weren't paid. The applicant paid the taxes. Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Thomas? So just confirm for me. They have not had a business license since 2002. Is that correct? 2002? 2022. I don't think it's that far back. Well, that's when this violation was. They had a business license, but it was, you know, the business license goes by address. Mm-hmm. They were using the old address for the business license and kept renewing the business license under the old address. They do business in three different locations. There's the one at Round Hill. There's another one in the county and there's one in the city. There's three different DBAs under the same group. So they did have a business license, but it wasn't for this. It wasn't proper. It wasn't for this particular property. Okay. Questions to my left. Yes, Mr. Brimbeck. Oh, Mr. McKay. He slipped in there in front of you. Go right ahead. No, I've heard from adjacent landowners that the property wasn't kept in a desirable manner, but they started cleaning it up kind of once this whole revocation discussion came about, and now they've started cleaning it up. I just, I want to know that, you know, they're going to follow through because it doesn't look like they followed through here over the past two years. They did not. I mean, they did not. Again, I can't make any excuses for it. I can, all I can do is say that, and again, I also wasn't the attorney that presented the CUP application. I've got a, I hope, a long history with the Planning Commission and the Board of Supervisors in Frederick County, and I give you my word that I've taken responsibility with the applicant to make sure this gets done. Okay. And it might be a question for staff, but once the site plan does get approved, how long till the applicant has to be approved? How long till the applicant has to implement those, those improvements? The improvements, you know, would probably be no more than 30 days, but the reason I say that is because once we approve the plan to get the other permits to get in place, grading permit and things of that nature, I would say between 30 and 60 days. What would happen, that's normal with any site plan that we have if you have to do any additional work. Worker, anything like that. However, having said that, just to maybe answer that question, Mr. Kay also, the business itself, as that condition says, what staff would do if all the improvements were in place, we'd do, we'd do—like we do with all our commercial ventures, we would do the inspection out there, and then we would sign off on anything that would be needed, and then you get a business license. The improvements that are not in place, at a reasonable time. The reason I say that is because sometimes you have weather, sometimes when you're planning, and then again, you have to be careful until you get the release on your first notice, because then you can't be after your steak that they're not Brewster orCH's — you know, Then again, everything just stops, and we do it on all our commercial sites like that. Okay. Thank you. I would also like to add that there's not really that much. I think what they've done, I don't know this for sure because it was decided today apparently, but I believe that they've opted to just put a fence around the perimeter. That's like the biggest thing that has to be done because they're not going to build this berm, and I know that they've priced that, and they know where the materials are and can go get them, and it's pretty easy for a landscape company to set up a fence. So I think that that time period that Mr. Cherin said would be 60 days would probably be longer than it would take to get everything done. There's not that much that needs to be done because they have been operating there, and it's already in kind of the right conditions for the operation of a landscape company. Okay. The other questions? Ms. Brunbeck. My questions were answered in all of that, so thank you. The other question is to my left. Sorry, but there's no requirement that in 60 days it has to be in place or you're losing? Well, like Mr. Cherin said, it could be weather dependent. There is no formal code or requirement that the site plan improvements have to be installed within 60 days of the site plan being approved. Is there a requirement we can place? Just because I was just curious. It's been going on for so long, they could take another year. Yeah. If the commission takes action to table it, you could ask for a progress update prior to offering a recommendation when it comes back for tabling. And then, Mark, technically they could add a condition to the existing CUP and stipulate a time frame as part of this process. So if you were inclined to do so, you could set a time frame. Okay. You would require the improvements to be installed after the site plan is approved. However, just note that if they're not, we're back here in a revocation context, right? So that would be the recourse. I don't know if that's helpful or not. Yeah, it is. Thank you. Mr. Petler, has the business been operating during this time period? They have not had a business license? They're operating. Yes, sir. You know, I'd have to check. I think they may have. I think they may still have a business license at another address up until right now, until this came up. And actually, when they went to renew for 2026 is when it came up. They've had a business license, and they've submitted their equipment list and paid their license fees. It's not like they were. I think that's. I think we got off on the wrong. Path on that. It's not as if they've been operating completely without a business license. It just wasn't the one associated with this address. But all the equipment that's at that address at 171 Firehouse Lane has been part of the business licenses at the other property, at the other property address. Okay. I would just offer one comment. I think you have worked well with this body. You've been before several times. And we appreciate. Your honesty with us this evening. Thank you very much. I hope I hope to continue to do so. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak to this item, this would be the time for you to do so. Please come to the podium. State your name, magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Good evening, sir. Rocky Keplinger. I'm with the Back Creek District. I own the land next to Cutabug property. It doesn't take. I think. According to what I've heard. What I saw over there, he couldn't even be operating the business until he gets a condition use permit on the property. What I saw. I'm not a lawyer. But they have not really done anything up until two weeks ago when you all started this process. They've been collecting abandoned automobiles. At one time, there's over 12 of them back there. Some of them did get moved. They bring stuff in a dump from the job sites. I found all kinds of stuff in my field. I've thrown away brand new tarps. And when a windstorm blows, it's all in our front yard. The neighbors, we have no trees, no nothing. It don't take a rocket scientist to plant some trees. And it shouldn't take a time train to plant some trees. If you look at this whole thing, it's been drawn all day. Way too long. It took a year for them to actually fill out the CPU from 2022 to 2023, whatever your dates are. And here we are in a year and a half after you all approved this and Frederick County approved it. How many more excuses? How many more excuses are we going to give these people? I mean, to be a good neighbor, you shouldn't be hauling stuff in. You should be getting rid of your abandoned vehicles. And you should be taking care of the neighborhood. And they're not doing it. I don't know how much more time you all want to give them. But they're full excuses. I like to have a good neighbor. I like to have good business. I run a business. But if I was a responsible business owner, as soon as I got that thing approved, I'd be talking to my engineers. And I'd be on this thing. I wouldn't have to have county staff reminding me. You're late. Somebody has dropped the ball for some reason. And as a business owner, he hasn't been responsible for his actions to take the CPU through his engineers and get to this point where we are today. I hope that they can get their thing going. And I'd like to see them doing it. But as neighbors, we are looking at junk. The whole neighborhood. And he brings it there. He could have easily moved those vehicles a year and a half ago. No. Not two weeks ago. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Would anyone else like to speak? Hi. My name is Larry Ludwig. I'm in the Back Creek District. I live in one of the five houses in front of the lawn care facility. I've lived there 60-plus years. I kind of know what things are going on as well. And that's why I'm here is for the failed promise of the applicants to put up that privacy fence that they said they were going to do. This is something, like I said, they've been at this location. It may not be these owners, but they've been at this location probably 10 years. And over the years, I've seen junk trucks, tires, and everything like that. Now, I guess when they first were brought in, it was by the homeowner. And it was just a – they just put in a parking lot and everything, but it was just by the homeowner. And then years later, they partnered with this other business and stuff. But like I say, over the years, I've seen junk trucks, tires. Like I said, to their credit, they did clean up, like you said, a few weeks ago. We saw some junk trucks and stuff like that. And they did clean that up. But, you know, that's what made them do their job. I feel it's just – it's like an enormous responsibility. A lot of people that have successfully paid for one of the homeowner's properties in salt water – they couldn't cover up that. you know, reasonable that they fulfill what they were going to do, you know, what they said they were going to do. And like he said, if I was trying to impress someone, if I got a permit, I would want to impress them right away. I wouldn't want to wait, basically not doing it right way and stuff. So that's what I have to say. Thank you, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Hi, my name is Leslie Spencer. I live in Gainesboro. I was just quickly looking at the map, and it looks like the Independent School of Winchester is next door. And I just, I have questions about when the CUP was made, if it was a berm in trees, and then now it's being whittled down and brought back to a fence. Maybe all the neighbors need to meet as a community and talk about that, because it sounds like a really great mitigation process was put in place. But then taken back to just a privacy fence. Just my concern. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else like to speak? Good evening. Hi, good evening. My name is Kate Grigori. I'm the board chair of the Independent School of Winchester. I was here really just for observation, because we got the letter notice that our school was closed. And I didn't hear anything until the last lady made comments and mentioned our school. I don't really have too much to say, except that in the last few years, they've been really great neighbors to us. As a K through 12 school, you know, we have the children's safety as our main concern. And we do have our own privacy fences, right, to kind of block the view. So to be fair with what the residents are saying, we don't see as much as, pardon me, as much of the eyesores, I would imagine. But I just felt like I should mention that they have been really great neighbors. They've worked with us in terms of safety plans for our kids should something happen. Excuse me. Sorry, I'm a little nervous. I wasn't prepared to say anything. But they always drive really slowly through our easement, which we really appreciate, because we have other neighbors that don't always abide by that for the students. And they've been really helpful when it comes to, like, snow removal and lawn care and, like, emergency fixings of our driveway. So for what that's worth, maybe it would be great for all the neighbors to come together and kind of talk about how to, I would love to see them stay in business just because they've been such a good friend to us as a school. So that's my two cents on it. Thank you. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak? Seeing none, I will close the public hearing. Mr. Chairman, I have a question for you, sir. Mr. Petler indicated that the site plan would be turned in early next week. I don't know what the outstanding comments are that haven't been addressed yet that will be addressed on what gets turned in next week. So will those be reviewed by staff fairly quickly, or are there other departments that are also going to have to review portions of that? For compliance. There will be other departments that will have to look at it. As far as staff, he's right, it's a small comments that we had, the planning department have, but all the review agencies have to comment. As Mr. Petler pointed out, the health department was one of the bigger ones. We just got that today. The public works has already reviewed it, and it's going to be just for their own benefit. So we're going to have to review it. And then we're going to have to look at the building department, and then the building department will look at it. My understanding is they're not doing any new building after, or anything that's existing we're reviewing. So it could, when it comes in, our staff's going to look at it, and we're going to get everything together. If there's anything outstanding, we would put it out if they get it in by next week. Okay. Is VDOT one of the outstanding review agencies? Actually, no, they're not, because it's on a proper right-of-way. They already had commented on it through the CUP process. A lot of stuff that's in the CUP process is going to be reviewed by the CUP. So they're going to have to review it. So the CUP process is part of the site plan, except for some of the zoning stuff. So I think they can complete that. So this plan comes in early next week. It goes out for review to whoever. How long is that going to take? When the plan comes in, for ours gets looked at, usually anywhere between 30 days or longer. However, because this review was on a second review, as Mr. Pallett pointed out, back in July, most of the comments were probably just simple, they made, you know, the comments have been made by the reviewing agencies. And that would be ready for my signature approving the plan. So it could be, yes, it could be a week or two. I'd have to look to see what anything's outstanding out there. I know the health department was a big one. The reason I say that, it took some time because they had some drain fill issues. That was brought up at the conditional use permit process, too. I got the conditional use permit here, and I had to look it up. The rest of them were just the simple stuff that we normally see. So if it came in, to answer your question in a short time, if it came in Monday, we could probably have a staff, I should say, would look over it before the week is out. And if any deficiencies, we would get in contact with them, with the engineer, I should say. Okay. All right. Very good. Thank you, sir. Mr. Thomas wants to piggyback here. Mr. Chair, this is scheduled for April 8th for the board. Okay. Okay. Is there a way to delay that, that it would be later? Because even if we give them 30 days, there's no reason to cut it short, I guess. So if that was scheduled a month later for the board, then if we recommended revocation, that would incentivize them to fix the problem and not just try to push it down the road again and be back here in a month to see us again. So the board then could have a meeting and everything could be fixed and the board could... Okay. Yes. Whenever you, I gave you the options, you could, or explained the options you could do. Your question is, I'd say, we got 30 days until, was it April 8th, I believe? April 8th. If we have made enough progress, and if you decide, move the recommendation up to the other board, we would report back to the board and say, here's where we're at. They could ask to table it or deny it or add conditions. You can do that at this level if you want. Or could they reschedule it to another? Yeah, we could. Yes, sir. Because your recommendation... Just like a CUP or a rezoning that you all vote on to work with the applicant, the applicant can ask for a tabling. In a revocation a little different, you more or less got the controls where the applicants say, I need 30 days. They're at the mercy of this board and the other board. But you could recommend 30, 40 days, however you want to recommend. We could work with them. As Mr. Pearson said, it would have to come back here. And if it's not been done, then we can move forward. But we can move that day. It's not an in stone date. Yeah. So you can move it to the board in May. Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you, sir. Mr. Petler, would you like to respond to any of the comments that were made during the public hearing, sir? Just the last one, really, for Mr. Thomas. My only concern with the concept I think that Mr. Thomas was introducing is that we are, the applicant is at the mercy of the reviewing agencies once we get it in. Once the planning staff says, hey, this is good, we still may not have the approval for the next building. So we're not going to have the approval for the next building. That's right. And the question is, I think the question is, and I know Phil may not hear from the health department. The health department issue was, there is an old house on the property that's the office. And it has, you know, the drain fill that went with that house. And the question was, does it have the capacity to serve the employees and the people that would be there for this business? Again, I don't know why the engineer didn't respond to that comment until today, saying, yes, it meets the capacity that's there. Yeah. But I think the question is, I think the question is, I think the question is, I think the question is, I think the question is, I think the question is, is there a need for a new building that's contemplated by the site plan? So this is going to go back to everybody again for those comments. And that's the only hesitation I would have in just saying, oh, we can live with that, Mr. Thomas, because I just don't know bureaucrats, Mr. Thomas. You know how they are sometimes. And that's the only hesitation I would have about that. You're trying to represent your client very well. Thank you. I guess I would say, and the reason I ask about VCM. I think the planning staff would say they have no control over the health department, if you were to ask that. But they're right around the corner, so they can go over and look at them eyeball to eyeball. And I think that's the difference. So we're committing Mr. Pearson here to things. I'm not going to back up on saying we think we can get this done quickly, but I just, I'm a little hesitant. It would be very unfortunate, I think, if the planning commission recommended revocation and for some new comment that came out from an agency that required more back and forth between the applicant and the agencies, that that would be the reason why it gets revoked. And I don't think that's what anybody's intention would be. Mr. Petler, with all due respect, do you know how this looks to us? Oh, absolutely. I mean, this has been going on for four years, and we're sitting here thinking. Wait a minute. He's had all the time in the world to get this done, and he hasn't, for whatever reason. And I understand and I appreciate you sharing the reasons, but we're looking at it from the county standpoint, and it's, you know, we're kind of throwing up our hands saying, well, how much longer is this going to take? And I think Mr. Kleppinger, you know, he, or Mr. Keplinger, he nailed it. You know, how many more times are we going to let this continue? And I... I don't know. I mean, at some point, we have to either fish or cut bait, and I... It's just really... And I'm pro-business. I want to see businesses in Frederick County succeed. I'd love to see him succeed. But he's got to work within the parameters that the county has established for him to be a successful business here in the county. There's no doubt that that is... Your sentiments are correct, right? I mean, that is the situation we're in right now. We do have a business that does employ dozens and dozens of people, that is paying taxes, that is doing the right thing. And it is unfortunate that this small business person doesn't have the grasp of the process that you have to go through to do these sorts of things. Mr. Stein is from the Stein family, farming family. He just assumed... He assumed that the business that he bought that was operating in this rural area was permitted, and then he finds out afterwards that it wasn't, and it starts this long journey of going back and forth with planning staff, having to hire lawyers, having to pay for engineers, having to build fences and things like that that he didn't even know he was going to need. And that is a journey that a lot of small businesses have to go through, and it does hurt small business. It does result in some businesses not being able to open up. And that is a journey that is going to happen in our county because of the way things are. And it would be a shame to have a longstanding business that's been there, that does employ lots of people, gets put in a position where something out of their control at that point, because it's been in their control, I agree, up until now. But if you set this deadline with a revocation like this, and something comes up, what's the recourse for the applicant if they get an agency comment that they have to respond to, and they just don't have the time to do it? That's what I'm concerned about. But you would ask us to delay this 30 days? That's it. And I will promise you, I will not come back and ask for more time before this board makes a recommendation. But I think what Mr. Thomas is asking is, can the Board of Supervisors agenda be modified to move this to May, their first meeting in May, which would give you more than 30 days. That would give you more like 45 days. Did I understand you correctly? That's exactly what... Okay. The applicant has a demonstrated disregard of the... Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. No. Okay. Sorry. You know, any question else Kyle? We don't have time for any questions or comments. Just... Yeah, where did the... Ah, the... The creepy comment you just made. The... Where did the... Where... I mean, we've... You know, the question is, how did Mr. Thomas make the move that we have a great opportunity to deal with this? it was stealing the money from hypotheical experts yesterday session of litigations, Scientology Association. It can be any money, a dollar, a dollar. So what's the basis of it? Let me... I think I would rather see us vote on a revocation tonight. That incentivizes the applicant, which it appears he needs some incentive to fill out the paperwork and do the process correctly and then have it go to the board on the 13th. That gives him 45 days, close to 60 days, to get his act together and get it fixed. What we're talking about, some screening, I mean, you're trying to convince us that this applicant has had a mental process of trying to decide whether to do a berm, trees, or a fence for the last three years, and he couldn't figure out what to do. I mean, that's kind of hard to believe. No, sir. If that's the impression I gave you, that's not what I intended to communicate. Well, that's what's happened, essentially. No, sir. Because he hasn't done anything. He hasn't done any of the things he was supposed to do, the buffering and that. That's not that complicated. We're not talking about rocket science here. We're talking about very simple things to fix the problem and to get the site plan approved. And I don't think without an incentive that it's going to be harmful to the applicant. He's not going to do anything. He's demonstrated that. He has a demonstrated disregard for the process. And now you want us to believe that, okay, all of a sudden here, three years later, he's seen the light. And he's going to go ahead and do it? No. I don't, you know, I have a hard time stomaching that. And I think, you know, to protect the neighbors, to protect the process, if we go ahead and let, I mean, this would set a precedent. If we go ahead and let somebody totally disregard the process, disregard the requirements, what's to prevent other CUP people from saying, oh, well, the county's not going to do anything. Why should I listen to what they want me to do? I think this needs to be resolved. Okay. I recommend it to be revoked. Let the board meet on the 13th of May. See if we can get it delayed to the 13th of May and see if there's been any progress made that they can then go ahead and deny the revocation and reinstate the CUP. And that's just my opinion. Mr. Thomas, to be very clear, the only reason why nothing happened since the comments were issued by staff in October until six weeks ago, when I was advised that nothing was going on, is because the applicant did not know that those comments were sitting on some engineer's table. But there was two years before that. I understand what you're saying. But that is the case. Just I want to be clear that that's the case on the record. For the last six months. But what about the two years before that or three years before that? There have been two ownership changes in that company. It was started by one owner. Another owner bought it. And last year, another owner bought it. Okay. Mr. Stein doesn't even own the business anymore. So there's been a lot going on in that time period. It is, you're exactly right. From your perspective, it looks like it's a scoff wall. But from the applicant's perspective, it's look at all these things I've got to go through. And then his engineers aren't communicating as he would have expected them to be communicating with him and with the staff. And that is why we're, I'm forced to be in this position. The other thing I'm concerned about is this. Say you recommend to revoke it now with the hope that the supervisors change their agenda. What if they don't change their agenda? Two, and what standard of progress do you want to see? To know, I mean that's what I don't understand. What is the, you were going to say. Sir, sir. If there's certain progress. I understand what you're trying to do. But you know, there's. Would you like to change your agenda? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Sure. Another question. First question. If you're a lawyer, would you recommend, as a lawyer. Would you recommend somebody by a business without doing due diligence and finding out number one, the CUP is not approved. Number two, they don't have a business license for this site. And number three, they shouldn't be operating at all. You know, if you were a lawyer and you recommended a purchase to a client to do something, to buy a business that was in that state. I think. shape. So I'm not going to, you know, I just think that without having a fire under this guy, the owner, to get this fixed, we're not going to go anywhere. And I understand what you're trying to do. You're trying to represent your client. You're trying to come up with all these excuses. But, you know, you're never going to change my mind on this one. Understood. Does anybody else have any questions? Thank you, sir. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, make a comment? Yes, sir. This is a time for commissioners to discuss it. Yes, sir. So go ahead, Dr. LaManna. I just want to reinforce what the vice chairman was saying. Certainly, we don't want to challenge the existence of any business. But I think we also have to decide as a commission, do we want to be a commission of rules and standards and consistency? Or do we want to be a commission of second and third and fourth chances? And I think it comes down to the responsibility of the owner to know what's going on at the time it's going on. So that's my position. And I think consistency is important because all the businesses in Frederick County expect that. Right. Ms. Bruback? I agree in some aspects with Mr. Thomas. But I also don't see the harm in tabling this for 30 days. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. But I also think we need to make sure that we're seeing where our progress is in 30 days and at that point making it maybe better informed on both parts of our decision. Okay. Any other discussion on my left? To my right. Mr. Whitaker? Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think the biggest issue out of this can of worms is the drain fill. This could be a serious health issue if you're overworking that drain fill. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. field you really talk about contaminating your groundwater so this is really been too long too little too late thank you the other discussion to my right sir I just want to make the comment I remember when this came through and I remember the comments and the discussions that we had and in the applicant was here and we we talked a lot about the screening we had neighbors come up and talk about how what it was gonna look like and this is what what I think what bothers me the most is that nothing has been done and this is a landscaping come it's not like they have a hard time coming up with you know shrubs and trees I mean what what does it take for them to put you know just to be good neighbors put up okay we don't know exactly what we need to do yet but we know that here are some options let's put up some trees let's put up some you know they have access to these things they're a landscaping company you know they have access to these things they're a landscaping company you and that nothing has been done if anything it got worse by adding cars and junk cars and trucks and stuff in there knowing that this was the concern and I understand that the ownership changes I get that but it's not like it was a secret we went through this process it's all on public record it was all it was all part of this so mr. Thomas like I get the the hard line on this I understand the hard line on this and and they've had a long time to be good neighbors I appreciate they were good neighbors with the school that's great that that's fantastic that they that they were being good to the kids in the school but the neighbors behind them I would be out of my mind if I lived in one of those homes and they haven't expecting that the process was gonna work and they haven't done anything into in two years so mr. Thomas I I would agree with your your hard line on this that's all thank you any other discussion am I right other questions? Mr. Chair Mr. Bob Chalmers yeah I had a question can we tonight get a decision can we get the board date moved back so that if we revoke it they have 30 or 45 days to get things in order yeah we try not to at all mess with when these items paced through the Planning Commission or board and our reason for that is we just don't want to be acting arbitrarily to slow down the process and we just don't want to be acting arbitrarily to slow down the process and our reason for that is we just don't want to be acting arbitrarily to slow or speed up any sort of item in that regard. In my opinion, it's preferable from my perspective that either you all table it or it goes on the board's agenda and they choose to table it rather than me monkeying around with when things land on the agendas. Anything else? I tend to agree with Mr. Thomas as well. I think this thing has dragged out so long. So it's just he needs a fire under him, and that will get him going. Hopefully, I'd like to see him be successful. And I think he's got two other locations he can operate from while this goes through the process. I do think I'd love to see a condition on here that stipulates the amount of time that he has to complete the improvements that are shown on the site plan. And if this gets tabled, I'm going to make a motion that we do that. If it doesn't, if it gets revoked, then I don't have to worry about it. So that's my two cents worth. Okay, this is Back Creek. So, commissioners from Back Creek, what would be your pleasure? Yes, I'm going to move to table the revocation of CUP 0324. For 30 days. And that would be our April 15th. And that would be our April 15th meeting. And at that time, would expect to have an approved site plan. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any further discussion? Mr. DeHaven? Quick question, Mr. Chairman. With a motion and a second on the floor, to be able to make a change to require a condition to have it done in a certain amount of time, can that happen now? Or does that? Or does the motion have to be defeated and reevaluated? I would suggest that you all take it up. If this motion passes to table it, that you take that condition up when you bring it back on April 15th to make it clean, in my opinion. Because otherwise, you're going to add it now, and then you're just going to wait 30 days and come back and have to review it again. And the site plan may be approved, and you'll have better context as to how much time you want to set for them to then complete the revocation. So I would suggest that you all take those improvements. That would be my recommendation. Okay. Any other discussion? Mr. McKay? I know we can't require it, but as an act of good faith, I would love to see the actual applicant here at that next meeting. Okay. Any other discussion? Okay. The motion is to table this for 30 days. Mr. Whitaker, can you start us, please? A yes vote is agreeing to table it for 30 days, and no vote is no thank you. We don't want to table it. Whitaker, yes. Crane, no. DeHaven, yes. Kearns, no. Kozol, no. Thomas, no. Sneddon, yes. Lockhart, no. McKay, yes. Brumback, yes. Lamano, no. Chair must know when a motion fails. That opens the floor for any commissioner to make a motion. I move that we recommend the board revoke Conditional Use Permit 03-24 on the basis of noncompliance with the requirements of the Conditional Use Permit. We have a motion. Is there a second? We have a second. And we have a second. Is there any discussion? Any discussion? Hearing none, I'll begin with Dr. Lamano. Lamano, yes. Brumback, no. McKay, no. Autorf, yes. Sneddon, no. Thomas, yes. Kozol, yes. Kearns, yes. DeHaven, yes. Crane, yes. Whitaker, yes. Chair votes yes, and the motion carries. As scheduled, this will go to the Board of Supervisors on April the 8th with a recommendation for revocation. That leaves us to Item Number 9, Current Applications. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No specific current planning applications for you all. I'm happy to answer any questions on things you might have going on around the county relative to planning and development. And I would note this Thursday we're having another one of our comp plan meetings at Admiral Byrd Elementary at 630 in the Topics Water. Please try to make the time if you can join this or any of the other series that we have coming in the ensuing month and a half or so. So, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Yeah, Commissioners, if you will, please get your calendars out, your smartphones, your notepad, however you keep track of where you're supposed to be. As Mr. Pearson mentioned, tomorrow night at 630, I believe, over at Admiral Byrd Middle School is the next public meeting for the comp plan update where we reach out to the public. Again, the focus will be on water. Mr. Whitaker, I expect to see you there with bells on, sir. And a very important topic, especially with what we've heard of late. Also, next Tuesday, a week from yesterday, March 24th, is an additional meeting. That particular meeting will focus on housing. And I can tell you, based on what we heard from our economic development, economic consultant report that we had about a month ago, that's a very important topic for us to consider. That will be at Greenwood Mill Elementary School. Again, Tuesday, March 24th. That one is also at 630. These only last an hour, so they don't take a tremendous amount of time. But they will be well worth your time to talk to folks and hear what's being presented and hear what our citizens from the county have to say. So I look forward to seeing you there, and we will all learn more together. With that said, it takes us to adjournment. Mr. Thomas? So moved. Is there a second? Second. Second. Okay. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Be careful going home. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. You've done a good job. All right guys, thanks again to the top of the cab for you taking that . . . . . . . . brought you a great time. . . . . . . . brought you a great time.
