Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2022-12-07
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=168
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Commissioners, we know we're going to be doing a lot of talking tonight, so please remember to turn on your mic when you speak. Thank you. Next up is the adoption of the agenda. Commissioners, we have a request for a 60-day deferral regarding 6A, rezoning of number 1022 Fruit Hill Equus LTD. Do I have a motion? Mr. Chairman, I move to amend the agenda. Am I removing 6A from the public hearing part? How long is the deferral on that? 60 days. 60 days. 60 days. Second. Okay. We've got a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. Okay. Anybody opposed? Okay. It's been taken off the agenda in 60 days. Now, Mr. John Foote is supposed to be here. If he does come in, I do want to give him an opportunity to speak regarding this. So, I will call him up at that time. So, I think it's only appropriate to allow him. Unless there's someone else here that wants to represent and speak for him. So, okay. All righty. Moving right along. Meeting minutes. Do I have a motion to approve the minutes from the September 21st meeting? So moved. Second? Second. All right. All those in favor? Aye. All right. They're approved. We have committee reports now. Ms. Cosell, DRRC. Yes, sir. DRRC met on Monday, November 21st, 2022, and discussed three items. Amendment to Zoning Ordinance OM, Office Manufacturing, Park District, to expand allowed uses and remove district design requirement. This item will go before the Planning Commission for discussion. In January of 23. Amendments to Zoning Ordinance Signs to Implement Content-Neutral Sign Requirements. This item will go back to DRRC for further discussion in January. And then the last item reviewed was Amendment to Subdivision Ordinance Utilities and Easements to Allow for Overhead Utilities Under Certain Circumstances with Approval of a Waiver by the Board of Supervisors. This item... We'll go back to the committee for further discussion in January. That's all. Thank you, Ms. Cosell. Mm-hmm. Frederick Water. The monthly water production is 6.997 million gallons per day. The quarries are in excellent shape. Water production is excellent. The Board of Directors approved the fiscal year 2022 financial statements. The Board of Directors approved various fee adjustments, such as a tenant deposit requirement of $300. The Board of Directors approved the fiscal year 2022 financial statements. Which is in alignment with ethical state guidelines. And they also approved for 140 development lanes to utilize the city of Winchester's water and sewer services. So that's Frederick Water's report. Do we have a liaison? Oh, how you doing? It's good to see you. Liaison for Winchester City. So during our November meeting, we talked about a development that's between Weems Lane and Ocella. We talked about a development that's between Weems Lane and Ocella. It was 126 townhouse units. We tabled it because we were waiting on council to their decision on a right-of-way, a vacation of actually two right-of-ways in that parcel. Also, we talked about green space requirements downtown, making them maybe tiered or something along those lines in regards to the lack of green space for those parcels downtown. Then also, we had a citizen put a discussion item in, wanting to vacate an alleyway off of Whitlock Avenue that was denied. It just didn't make sense, and that was it. Thanks, sir. Good to see you tonight. Thank you. All right. Board of Supervisors liaison, Mr. Ludwig. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since this commission met last, the Board of Supervisors has, met twice on October 6th and November 9th. At both meetings, planning commission business was decided, both COPs and rezoning quests, as this commission is aware. At the October 26th meeting, the Board voted to provide a rebate against the personal property taxes, which increased due to a spike in vehicle assessments. These rebates reduced the personal property tax bills that everyone in the county would have received last week. However, that rebate amount is not, called out clearly on the bills. I do hope to clarify for the public, how to read those bills and where to find their rebate amounts at next week's Board of Supervisors meeting. That's all. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Thank you for being here tonight. Okay. The next, the next point that we have up is citizens' comments. Now, this is the biggest crowd we've seen in a long time. So, if you are here regarding the NELA, discussion, that is a discussion. That is not a public, for public comment. This would be the point that you would want to come up and speak regarding the NELA. We want to make sure we give everybody that opportunity if you want to come up. The only thing we're going to ask is, keep the comments less than three minutes, and I will cut you off. And please, we don't want to hear repeat over and over again about the same thing. Now, with the NELA, and, we also, if someone still wants to speak regarding the Fruit Hill, you've come out for this, we want to give you an opportunity to speak. That would be, this would be the time to speak regarding that as well, for citizens' comments. So, anything else that's on the agenda, if you're coming out to speak regarding public hearings, items, for, you know, C-Clan NLC, or, for the conditional use permit on the humanitarian aid, you will speak during that time. So, I hope I've made this as clear as I can for everybody. Before I start the citizens' comments, and open it up, I saw Mr. Foote walk through the door, so I would like for Mr. Foote to have the opportunity to explain why they have requested the 60-day deferral. Mr. Chairman, thank you for your courtesy. I feel like a Charlie Daniels song. Oh, hit, it puts the button, it's probably not on. Is that the right button? Yes. I feel like a Charlie Daniels song, because there was fog on the mountain, getting over here, and there was fog, getting out of Manassas, I tell you that. I was more than 20 minutes longer than my normal trip. Thank you so much. We have requested a deferral here for a number of reasons, not the least of which is that we don't believe, in the end, we were ready. There are a couple of reasons for that. One of which is, as you know, in discussions with a member of the commission, with discussions with staff, there's a new proffer proposed with respect to actual physical construction of improvements to roads, in the area that we hadn't had before. That has not had a chance to be reviewed by Mr. Williams or even the staff. It needs to be. There also was a confusion on our part, perhaps even most especially on my part, that the reason there is no traffic impact analysis that's presently finalized is because there have been ongoing discussions between VDOT and Kittleson, our traffic consultant, that the modeling that was originally done, according to the standard protocols for that modeling, are wrong. Because those models don't work. And Kittleson and VDOT have been discussing at length how you would, in fact, properly model them. I'm advised as of today that they are, quote, 99% there in consensus as to how that should be done. As you and I have discussed, that could be 10%, that could be 100%, but we're not there yet. And so to suggest that we come before you without a fully approved TIA, I think, would be inappropriate. And so we are simply saying it's not ready. And so we asked for additional time. Now, I understand the motion was for a 60 day deferral. I happen to spend two months in California with my son and his wife. I'll be back February the 28th. We had requested in a letter that we sent to Mr. Pearson that the commission consider at least putting us off to your March 2nd meeting. March 2nd or 3rd, I forget. But I think it's March 2nd. If that's possible, we would like that. But you don't need me. You can go ahead without me. The world will not end. I'm stunned to say that out loud and in public. But if you can accommodate that, I like to be personally participating with my good client and friend, but it's up to the commission. Thank you, sir. Oh, and I want to also say for those that may have come to participate in the proceedings tonight and didn't know this was going to happen, we are grateful for their attendance. We're grateful for the commission. We're grateful for the commission's understanding. And we want to come back to you with a project that is certainly in a position for you to consider it on its full merits. Thank you, sir. Thank you for coming out. Appreciate you explaining to Mr. Pearson. Do we need to make an adjustment on that? No, I think the commission's action was appropriate for Mr. Foote's request. March 2nd. Perfect. Actually, I think it's March 1st. March 2nd looks to be a March 1st, unless I'm in the wrong year. I think it's March 1st. No, I'm in the wrong year. You're in the right year. Thank you. It's even better. March 2nd is my wife's birthday, so good. All right. Now, now we're going to get to next up is citizens comments, which is open for any items not before the commission for the public hearing or on the agenda. If anyone wants to speak, please come forward, state your name, your magisterial district. And like I said, please keep it less than three minutes. Thank you. You know, I can't do that. Well, you can try, sir. Oh, pleasure being back here again. It's been a while. Charlie, I guess you got in trouble. You're down at the end now. When I got put on the commission 17 years ago, I was told, be careful not to assume your IQ shot up 10 points because you're on that side of the stage and everybody out here dropped 10 points. As soon as you think that you're a politician. So keep in mind your representatives. I'm here to talk about the NELA. Last year, just over a year ago, I was asked to stay a little bit. Longer past my term. To share the NELA citizen committee. Um, I've got five members that had never done any planning. Not so sure that even been on a planning or a county committee before. Mr. Warren off was one. Let's first. Oh, is here. Uh, Ruth Bowden, Jeff Butler and Theo theologians. Those are the five citizen members picked. Our first two meetings was planning one on one. Here's what a site plan is. Here's what a plan. Use plan is here. What a rezoning is to get them up to speed. We spent just about every week over four months. We started at the very bottom of the needle and worked away north. We did broken into four sections and considered everything along the way. How it all is intertwined. We looked at water, sewer, gas, power roads and considered all that. I don't want those five citizens effort to be in vain because they spent a lot of time going over all that and I wouldn't vote. It was their turn of I'm coming off the planning commission. It wasn't my decision. I wouldn't have come up the same plan they did. I'm sure you wouldn't come up with the same plan. Everybody would have their own plan, but they got to vote. Sometimes it was five zero. Sometimes it's 3241, but in the end we had a plan that came before us. Okay. It came before you all. It went to C P P C. I've been on C P P C. You get it, you look it over, you make a couple of snap judgments. You didn't put near the hours these five people put into it. Again, I don't want them their hard work to go in vain. So I saw in discussion tonight there was two maps that was coming forward. One was what came out of C P P C that went to the public and the other is what staff is recommending. And I thought it was important. Point out that there's a third map and that's the one of the citizens who people, the people that actually live up there came up with. And I think you need to consider that as the building block. And then if you want to make a change, go from there. There's a couple aspects on staff plan that probably need to be implemented, particularly in regards to transportation, the Stonewall Park and some things about the DSAs. Sensitive areas. I think those are should be incorporated, but I think you need to go back and look at exactly what the land uses were that that group came up with. Because even on the last meeting, they took a look at some of them and revoted and changed it. But in the end, they all had a plan that they could stand behind. And again, they put a lot of hours and a lot of effort into it. I would ask you to consider that. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Oates. Good evening. Hi, my name is Lisa Koric. I live in. Stonewall. I've lived here for 23 years and I just have some comments about both topics. I've reviewed the proposed Fruit Hill project, the 220 acre commercial industrial development, and I oppose the project strongly. The illustrative plan shows a restaurant, a hotel, data center, and three warehouses. The warehouses total 1.3 million square feet of space and they were adjacent to the established neighborhood. Specifically, the warehouses will be. Located 100 feet from the houses on Rue Buck Lane and 200 feet from the houses on Macbeth Lane. That includes my house where it's a nice little quiet area. I keep a small apiary. I raise organic food. I raise poultry. I do my thing. Having a warehouse facility with trucks that can potentially be going 24 7 behind my house is not ideal. The proximity to the warehouses could result in lower property values. And also the residents quality of life and negatively impact the already burden roads. Residents would be directly impacted by air noise and light pollution from the warehouses as well as any activities resulting from a lot of diesel trucking. As many of us have learned from reading the results of the recent NELUP survey, an overwhelming number of respondents view these three things as very important. The preservation of agricultural land, rural land, and cultural resources. The protection of natural historic resources for future generations and managing heavy truck traffic, truck circulation, excuse me, traffic circulation and interstate access. The Fruit Hill project represents the opposite of these results. Turning agricultural land into commercial industrial space and adding additional traffic problems. When the NELUP surveys asked what type of development would you like to see in the northern Frederick County? Respondents had many responses. Demonstrating wish for no more industry or mining or warehouse development. Instead they asked for more grocery stores, restaurants, recreational facilities, and residential properties with the caveat to weigh building additional residences against the pressure on schools and infrastructure. In conclusion, it is my belief the Fruit Hill project is not what the residents living in the northern part of Frederick County want. Can we grow the tax base without adding more industrial warehouse and logistic operations? Because they seem to be in a position to do so. Is the city planning to be the default? Can you tell me what other options the county is considering? Many of us moved here to enjoy the rural charm. We do not want living here feeling like Northern Virginia, especially without the amenities. Thank you for your time. Thank you, ma'am. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Yes, sir. State your name and manager of district. Hi, Dr. Michael Fore. He's Stonewall District. I have three points, well four after the first gentleman talked. I'll be brief. One, I think if we do bring sewer in your adjoining property, you should have the opportunity to get on that. I know that would have to be planned while they change the zoning if that ever happens. I know my septic field reserve is on Mr. Orndorff's field. One of my neighbors, his whole septic system is in the field. I didn't move there to have industry in my backyard. It's bad enough McKesson light pollution. You can't see the stars as well. And the other thing is when I sent my email to the, not the planning commission, but this thing we're talking about, you know, they sent back, well, essentially a reassuring thing that this is not rezoning. This is just a plan, but it's just a plan. Why was everyone so up in arms regarding the mining? And one other thing, I certainly don't expect Mr. Orndorff to keep agriculture forever. You know, that's not fair to him. But when you buy in a residential community, you know, behind you, in a field, you expect recreation. Sorry, you expect houses or worst case scenario business, but not industrial. I don't think anyone who's in the country to expect industrial to be in their backyard. And the last point, you know, how much time people put into it. I know in my profession, I've been to lots of meetings. I've all been medical and oftentimes we spend a lot of time on things. But it doesn't necessarily mean we come up with the right ideas. And once you get more information, sometimes viewpoints change. I don't want to be skewed by the effort of the five individuals. I'm sure what they did, I know I hated being on all the committees, but you know, you do what you have to do. But sometimes the decisions you come up with are not in the best interest of the whole county. Thank you. Appreciate it. Anyone else want to speak? Yes, ma'am. Hi. Good evening. I'm Janice Wade. I live in Gainesboro District, but I also support my neighbors up in Stonewall. I have a daughter that lives up there. She bought a great house in the rural area. I'm just mostly against the extension of the mining, and I would like other solutions to come along. I feel like mining is not the right solution for our community. It's caused a lot of damage in the area that's there already, and to expand that all the way up Route 11, I think is devastating to the land and property owners around there. I also hear what people are saying about industry, and I support them in that, but I just would ask the Board of Supervisors, and I know that's not you, to look at the reflection of these surveys. If 80% of people are saying that's not what we want, then there would be no reason to support Carmoose's request later this month to change the rezoning, and I hope that that will be considered. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Anyone else? Yes, ma'am. If I don't breathe, I can get this in in three minutes. Brenda? Three minutes, Brenda. Am I pushing this or is the R.E.R.? Your R.E.R. My name is Brenda Fristow, and I live in the Stonewall District. Mr. Chairman and members of the Planning Commission, thank you for your hard work in serving our community. I was privileged to be a part of the citizen work group who reviewed the 21,000 acres of Frederick County's Northeast section. Our goal was to compare the current comprehensive plan, paying attention to the vision and core values to the reality of living, and the Northeast development, traffic, and almost weekly rerouting of Route 81 along this corridor. We were instructed to think about what we wanted this area to look like when our children and grandchildren grew up and lived here. Each of us took this task very seriously as we met weekly over the course of about four months. When we completed this task, I assure you there was no more mining on our draft NELUP. After the plan left our group, it went to the CPPC, and these are the reasons that you should not add mining. Tax revenue. The future value of this area was deemed a crown jewel for Frederick County. The infrastructure in this piece of land is unique. Presentations by Shenandoah Valley Electric Co-op, Shenandoah Gas, and the Economic Development Authority spoke to the qualities available in this area because of the power grid, the gas availability, the interstate access, the natural berm due to the mountain rain, and the The land is very enticing to all kinds of businesses. The unrelenting dust as product is moved several miles over dirt roads to the crushing area on the other side of Bruce Town Road will be the new normal, not to mention the inevitable structural cracks from blasting. And then the third and final, Frederick County Board of Supervisors top four priorities of the legislative agenda were just released. Frederick County supports maintaining and expanding local authority to plan and regulate land use. Once the land is designated extractive mining, Frederick County gives up local authority to the Virginia Department of Mines, Minerals and Energy. I know this firsthand. I was able with others to speak in front of the General Assembly asking for more local authority over the mining at the local level. Our request didn't get the votes. So we look at that. We look at the 200 foot three tiered car moose mountain every day in Clearbrook. You may think, oh, but we will deal with that with proffers. How are the proffers working out for us today as we live with the eyesore, the noise, the dust, the fly rock? You simply cannot think of all the possible scenarios needed in a proffer agreement. In closing, I ask you to reject the extractive mining expansion proposed by the CPPC. Instead, designate this area as mixed use. Industrial office, which limits noise, dust and traffic. This will ensure that the land is used in keeping with its unique qualities, as well as the vision and the core values of Frederick County. Thank you very much. Miss Pristow. Anyone else would like to speak? Yes, sir. Gentleman in the back. Okay. Go ahead. No, I don't want you. Get up there. I know. Remind you, please, name, magisterial district. My name is Arthur Bragg, and I'm a resident, lifelong resident of Bruce Town. Arthur. Arthur. Make sure you keep it three minutes, please. I have. Thank you. I've gone through that. Beautiful. And I live in the Stonewall District. And I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman Jewell, and the board members for the opportunity to speak tonight. My concern is the proposed expansion of the mining operations by Carmoose and the tunnel under the Bruce Town Road, which daily users are not aware of that it exists. And Carmoose's plan is to enlarge it for its processing of their northern operations. So I ask what safety factors are in place for this current tunnel? If it collapses, who pays for rebuilding? Not VDOT, not Carmoose, since it's controlled by the Virginia Department of Mines, Minerals, and Energy. How often, I ask, is it inspected? How long would it take to secure funding if such is not in their budget? Is Carmoose's plan for their northern operation to tunnel also under the Grace Bible Church Road? How much more traffic can Bruce Town Road handle? Prior records indicated 9,000 vehicles per day. That has drastically increased. More tractors and trailers. VDOT's plan to rewrite the traffic off of the old Charlestown Road when the low-water bridge is constructed will run everything through Bruce Town. It really should go to Route 7. It will greatly increase the traffic load crossing a bridge that was built in 1917 and is rated in poor condition. So Carmoose's operations need to be expanded. It's interesting, here we are, 51 years later, complaining about this quarry operation as residents were doing in May of 1971. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Good to see you tonight. Good to see you. Yes, sir. My name is Adam Kibler. I'm 39 years old. I've lived in the same house my entire life. The property that's getting, the property that is trying to be taken away and stripped down and putting all the warehouses on back straight up to my house. I got two little girls. We've always, we used to ride the horses down the road and everything else. But we can't do it anymore. Because we're not going to be able to do it again. Because they want to put warehouses in. That's not fair. It's not, it's not a good situation. The only reason I did not want to move out of my parents' house was because there was always a chance that I could bring my girls up in the same home. But I can't do that. I can't do that because if they're going to bring and put a warehouse in. Then my house is this big. The warehouse is going to be this big. My house is just a speck in that warehouse. And that's just sad. The size of the warehouses are going in all the way down the road. Not cool. My other question is. There used to be. A. A waterway. That came down through. And it stopped at the end where they're proposing to cut the road off. Where does that waterway go? Because they did a bunch of. Work with the water to get it to flow away from my house. The swells they built. If they build a warehouse at the end, does that mean the water goes down and just stops? I don't know. I. If the water stops there. It's all going to come back on us. And then what? Our house is flood. I've had enough of that. It's real fun clearing out houses. Yeah. Anyways, I just want you to think about. What is it going to do going down the line? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Thank you. Stay with your fire. It takes time. Boy, was that a lot of research. Yeah, you consider tomorrow. A cleaning up those walls and get them wet. Looks good. Yeah. Yeah. That's trying to help me, Sir. Like want to go back the firewood to make sure it's all working. and not without so much. We don't need all these national builders and building all this. This plan, the first time I got a letter on it, I thought, how flawed could we get? The word agriculture, it's not even mentioned in this plan. And now I heard who the people were. Mr. Orndorff, most of his life was created around, living around farming. He owned, part of his family owned a lot of the agricultural land that's all around me. Mrs. Bowden, they pretty much live off agriculture. And we're just not a word about agriculture in that. Do we not like agriculture? Agriculture is the number one business in Virginia. We all eat. And if we don't support regional agriculture, we're going to suffer. These mega farms, 53 million birds, chickens, and turkeys, to this date, have been killed because we put them in these mega farms. You're open to disease and insects. Ted Turner, the largest farmer in the country, what's he in it for? Money. He doesn't care about people. Most of our food is coming from other places now. My family moved here in 1946. My dad moved here. He lived in New York through the Depression. And he says, I'll never do it again. When he left the aircraft industry after World War II, in 1946, he bought our farm. It was a small farm, 35 acres. But we raised everything. We raised thousands of chickens. Behind us was McCann's Orchard and McCann's Farm. They raised shorthorn cattle. And people survived on the farm. Stein's Farm, 600 and some acres, now an industrial park. Stonewall Industrial Park, all farming land. And now it's gone. But we want to take more away. And we're using it foolishly. You know, we're running people off because people came from D.C. area and everything because they want this rural land. But they're proposing data centers. And we're on agricultural land. That's nice agricultural land. But it's being bought up. Carmoose bought up agricultural land for exorbitant prices. So farmers can't afford to farm in Frederick County because land's too expensive. I would have liked to have bought some of the land next to me. But when you can get close to $8 million for 150 acres, that's taxpayer money for a battlefield. For a battlefield that's overgrown with locusts, multiflora rose, autumn olive, and it's spreading to my property. We're constantly spraying to keep it off. The battlefield has done nothing with it. What did it do? The county get out of it? The county lost a five-year payback on taxes that they were getting for ag use because you don't get that because they are a nonprofit organization. Now that acreage will never bring a dime to Frederick County again. But that's okay. Let's do away with it. I can't see how we should stop it. We don't have the infrastructure for what you're talking about in the northeast plan use. We don't have the roads. We don't have enough water. Maybe you haven't lived here, but I lived through droughts in this county when there was 15,000 people in the county and less than that in this city. And that's before the city annexed. And water was a problem then. Water will be, if it gets dry, it'll be a real problem. And we will suffer for it. People are complaining about the quarry. Yes, the quarry. Yes, the quarry. Yes, the quarry. But it's just like power plants and everything else. We don't want it in our backyard. But did your house get built with stone from that quarry? Do these roads get in? They're looking to the future to be able to support everything that this county does. Let's have another warehouse. Behind me, our land, I'm the only piece of agriculture basically left around because there's a big warehouse that was built by the company that wants to build down there. That lights up the whole area. I have a hard time growing crops because of it. There's five of them back here. Why? Why is this county and our board of supervisors, I can't talk to you because I haven't heard any of you say it, when they put these huge solar plants out, we're protecting agricultural land. Those solar panels, they'll come down the houses that you're building. Now these cheap stick houses will be gone before them. And when they're gone, there'll be a fund probably. Because nobody's looked at what's going to happen with this stuff in the future. But behind me, on the land I was farming for a year, when we cleared it and everything, now they built warehouses. There are four plants back there that over 40 some acres, and there's 10 more to go in the Redbud area. There's not one solar panel on top of them. They light up like a Christmas tree. And wasting all this energy. Why are we building on agricultural land solar plants? We're building all these warehouses and factories. Why aren't we putting it on top of them? Mr. Weber, you need to wrap it up now. Well, that's basically what I think the county should relook at this plan and remember what this county was founded on agriculture. We have Apple Boston Festival. We're not going to have any apple trees for it anymore. You might as well take the fairgrounds away because we don't believe in agriculture. Wake up. Thank you, Mr. Weber. Next one. Yes, sir. Hi, my name is Charlie Gardner. I live in Gainesboro right on Brewstown Road. Guys, I want to sit here and first off remember what this day is for from many, many years ago, the great sacrifices that were made during that day. Speaking of sacrifices, I'd also like to sit here and say anybody that's in the Clearbrook, Brewstown area, the sacrifices we make every single day. We're not going to be able to do it again. We're going to have to do it again. We're going to have to do it again. We're going to have to do it again. We're going to have to do it again. We're going to have to do it again. We're going to have to do it again. I've been me, every single day, uh, with listening to the quarry, the dust, the dirt, everything else, the traffic, the trucks, everything is coming through there. Living right on Brewstown Road, guys, you don't understand what it's like. I work night shift and I have for quite a few years. I try to sleep during the day. All day long, all I hear is Jake breaking and every type of rumbling, everything else in the world you can believe coming through Brewstown. And this has increased as in until I sat here and made this. . . . the only thing that has changed in Brewstown is that we're in a state of trouble. We're in a state of trouble now. We're in a state of trouble now. We're in a state of trouble now. road that these trucks are allowed to travel on. And if you travel right in front of my house, right in front of the curb, there's a gully there now. And that gully's been there for years, and nobody wants to fix it. And they keep running off more and more and more, taking off more and more of my land, going into my ditches, sitting here tearing up my culverts. I'm responsible for tearing up the culverts. I have to sit there and pay for that. I have to fix that. You know, I'm 57 years old. I had a massive heart attack two years ago. I'm not up to sitting here digging and all that stuff because people have influenced more traffic on this road. You don't understand the noise, the pollution. When I come home in the mornings, and I'm riding by the fire hall, and I'm headed toward the quarry, the only thing I'm seeing is just nothing but dust and trucks coming out of there. Those guys are nothing but a bunch of prolific liars. They sit here and say, okay, we're going to do this, we're going to do that, and everything else. They never do. And when they get approval of something, they say, okay, we're going to do it in 10 years. It's going to be 10 minutes. Look what they've done to our park. Look what they took away from our park. What about all the kids who used to raise up, sit here and go play in that park? The baseball, all that, it's gone. It's nothing but a big berm now. What's going to happen down Brewstown Road? I'm hearing what they're going to do. They're going to put berms down Brewstown Road. How would you feel going home every single day in a berm? How's that going to be on my property? You just raised up probably about $200,000 on my properties. And I'm supposed to sit here and be happy that I'm going to be looking at berms? And more truck and traffics? Even though they sit here and say that, oh, we won't increase anything. Bull. How can you not do more stuff and not increase traffic? Okay, guys, what about the people that live in this area? What about the respect? What about the livelihood? What about everything we put up on a daily basis? You know, in the middle of the night, you know, you're out on your back porch trying to look at stars, et cetera, whatever else, trying to live a nice country life out of the city. And all I get to hear is a bunch of daggone rocks tumbling down the something that y'all proved years ago and the pollution from it. That's not what I enjoy doing. You know, I like to be able to sit here and relax at my house. A lot of times I can't. If I'm outside trying to push mow in the front of my ditch that now is a 90 degree angle, you know, I've got to dodge trucks. They hit me one day. Who's responsible? Is it my fault? Is it your fault? Is it driver's fault? Whose fault is it? And when that bridge finally at the end there collapses and everybody says, oh, look, and withstand. I'm going to go back to the And last, I'd like to sit here and note, the quarry made it very clear in their mailer, you can be bought. Here it is. All right. You can be bought. If that's the case, I'll tell you what. Let's pass the plate, guys. I'll give you a piece of property. Keep as for. Yeah. While they're sitting out, Oh, we're going to do this now so we get what we want.악 we're all adultas because thyou want to buyu. salary is what you can see that yre being YouTgoed thinks it's you can be bought. Don't show them that. Show them that you cannot be bought, that our lives can't be bought. I thank you, and I hope that you reject this. Thank you. You're here well said. You did. Thank you. Yes, sir. Hi. My name is Terry Fry. I'm from Clearbrook. I moved to Clearbrook about eight years ago because of the rural setting that you get off the Interstate 81, turn left on Hopewell Road, you go past orchards, beef cattle farm, dairy farms, wooded areas. That's why I moved there. I'm afraid this plan that we have in place or that's being looked at is going to change all that. We're talking about adding strip malls and warehouses and all these things. It seems to me that we're trying to make this just like Exit 317. If any of you go down to Exit 317, during some of the busy times of the day, it's a disaster. It's traffic everywhere. You come down Welltown Road, you may be backed up for four or five lights once everybody's coming out of the industrial parks and stuff like that. We don't want that up at 321 like you have down at 317. I don't think every exit has to be made into a business park area, strip malls and restaurants and hotels and whatever. Just my point. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, Commission. My name is Logan Thompson. I'll be speaking on behalf of Carmeuse in the Stonewall District. I'm the operations manager for the Carmeuse plant in Clearbrook. Carmeuse and its mining predecessors have been in operation in that area for more than 60 years. And similarly, my family's farmed in this region for more than 100 years. So strategic land use and management is important to me both professionally and personally. Our land in Clearbrook offers our company and Frederick County a unique opportunity to mine and operate. It's because of the large and unique reserves of limestone found there. Unlike other business infrastructure, limestone can't be picked up and moved. It must be mined where it's located, and it has to coexist with other smart development. We recognize that. Power lines, even high-voltage ones, they're not a unique attribute, say, to a parcel of land, nor is sewer and water, accessibility, roads, access. Fiber connectivity, good cell service, and an electrical grid are also not unique. Each of these man-made items can be located or relocated based on an unlimited number of units. We are asking that 400 acres that we own be changed to an EM zoning. Only roughly 75 acres of that would be an open pit mine, or one-fifth of the total acreage we're requesting, or 0.4% of the 21,000 acres in the Nealup study area. Following state laws and regulations, the remaining 325 acres would be used for berms and other construction projects. We're asking that 400 acres be changed to an EM zoning. We're asking that 400 acres be changed to an EM zoning. Other viewshed mitigations, internal roads, and stockpiles, not extraction. And we won't be increasing traffic of any kind. In fact, this rezoning would reduce traffic compared to other potential uses in the same acreages that the regional traffic grid is right now not prepared to handle. We recognize that this property, this opportunity, excuse me, produces some challenges, particularly for our neighbors in the area. the room let me address one of those stockpiles first next week we'll be sharing plans to reduce the overall height of the current stockpile seam from route 11 we went out and purchased uh property immediately south hearing the feedback um some years ago it was the number one community complaint and we will present that to you next week second our future mining plan deliberately excludes any new permanent stockpiles and third we'll use those extra 325 em acres to keep any future temporary stockpiles much lower we aim for a cooperative partnership with this region and our stakeholders and that includes our neighbors both now and in the future since 2016 our clear work operation has generated over 42 million dollars annually in economic impact in frederick county and supported more than 125 acres of land in the region we've been working with the county and the county board to develop a new plan to reduce the amount of land that we need to use to build a new mining facility in the area jobs that's both direct and induced job impact those numbers don't include tens of thousands of dollars and tens of thousands of tons donated and aggregates locally to organizations like the msv for their new walking trails the stone we donate to clear work park locust grove seminary cemetery just to name a few and many others in the future we we plan to redevelop 325 acres of land that won't be a quarry for future industrial and commercial uses once operations are complete lets the infrastructure grid traffic grid catch up to the land development and the 75 acre open pit could provide another critical source of water supply to frederick water and frederick county folks we look forward to continuing our ability to contribute to the county we know that there is an impact but we're standing here before you wanting to talk about it wanting to discuss it saying that we're from this area we live at the center of the county we're here to work here and we're here to and we know that look rocks are the building block of everything that we do and everything that that we use in our daily lives folks i appreciate your time tonight thank you sir thanks sir is there anyone else who wants to speak all righty at this time well i'm sorry thank you um hi my name's janie stixon and i live in clearbrook and i believe the mail plan will not benefit the citizens the plan will only benefit the investors in the quarry our homes have been here and we need to protect them we were told that we would be able to vote on the plan election day and it wasn't offered i believe that with the quarry the nella plan the water levels will be affected with all the wells in the neighborhood and the water levels and the Ein Stuff oakton Park area and the—R plugged the N-黒 above the —Gentarミs —Payment from part of Cramer's farm sector on their land precipitation no legends but homes of the city may be Wars a continuarle said gross acres of the ont viel network costs that'll be Versailles asking office informal agriculture site eagle and does not live in Boston and in a Syria声 no all of those neighborhood and that's a matter of fact for 20 some years we've already seen from the drilling from 100 feet to 500 feet from the quarry pulling the water and um i believe the noise that the quarry makes in the neighborhood if i was making that much noise i'd be arrested for disrupting the peace and um we don't need any more noise and traffic and we need to keep the rule in agriculture to feed the livestock and i certainly don't think we need any more traffic or any more distractions in um clearbrook thank you thank you ma'am okay is there anybody else going once going twice okay i'm going to close the citizen comments portion of this next up is going to be public hearings and we're going to move to item six eight conditional use permit for number 10 22 for c clan llc mrs feltner how are you i'm nervous no you don't need to be nervous it's the chip i got it sorry i thought i had that on there i can't get my buttons right sorry about that um thank you mr chairman and members of the planning commission um this is a cup uh this is a conditional use permit for a tractor truck and trailer parking the subject property is located on milton ray drive in the stonewall magisterial district turning your attention to the screen the property is outlined in blue the the entrance is milton ray and the property backs up to 81 um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um Donc so Carmen is talking about there's a patent soon on the have there have 2 no а do ah some so so so approved is over here. Supplemental use regulations require all areas utilized for the parking of tractor trucks and storage of trailers shall utilize a gravel or paved surface. That surface is required to be maintained. No inoperable truck tractor trucks or damaged salvaged trailers or unlicensed trailers shall be parked or stored on-site. Fuel sales shall not be permitted and maintenance of the trucks or trailers shall not be permitted. The facilities are required to be landscaped. The landscape yard area within the front setback is required to have two, I'm sorry, a double row of evergreen trees. The side and rear yard shall be planted with a single row of evergreen trees. The board of supervisors may allow for alternative landscaping based on topography and adjacent land use. A site plan in accordance with the requirements of the land use rules must be provided in accordance with the requirements of Article 8 shall be submitted and approved by Frederick County. The Northeast Land Use Plan of the Comprehensive Plan identifies this area of the county with an industrial land use designation. The NELIP and the Eastern Road Plan of the Comprehensive Plan depicts future Route 37 on the western boundary of the property. A goal of the area plan and the county's Eastern Road Plan is the implementation of Route 37. Should the Planning Commission find this use appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions to be placed on the CUP. All review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. The site plan shall be submitted and approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use, and the site plan for the property identified shall be designed to accommodate the future Route 37 right away. The site plan shall meet the requirements of the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance for tractor truck and tractor truck. The site plan shall meet the requirements of the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance for tractor truck and tractor truck. Any expansion or change of use will require a new CUP. Following a public hearing, staff is seeking recommendations from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. Staff is available to answer any questions as well as the representation for the owner and the engineering firm. Any questions from the Commissioners, from the staff? A second, I think it was a second condition. About showing the future right away for 37. What does that do for the development? I mean, it's a parking lot, so really it's easy to change from a parking lot to a ramp construction or a highway construction, but showing it on the plan, what does that do for us? That is, it's an effort to make sure that we're providing a good, safe, safe development. It's not just for the construction. It is for the quality of the construction. the owner aware that that is there it doesn't it doesn't do anything other than it's on the plan we make them put it on the plan so in the future they can say or they could not say well we were not aware of that when they can't expand the user change of use or build any structure on it without coming back to us anyhow because that's correct any changes would require a new conditional use permit okay thank you look to my right okay I've got a question I drove back there there's a logging operation going on back there I didn't see it on the map and is this part of what they're doing where they're clearing the land or is that just something is that a separate entity or what I'm gonna defer that question to the owner and the representative okay if you know would like to come forward hi the logging operation that's adjacent to well it's a log storage area has been there for like 12 years it's been there forever so our intent is for them to to move because they were in the city of Winchester and had a very small parcel so they would move and then the this the truck the tractor trailer parking lot would be in that spot okay okay I was just I mean it's pretty didn't they look like you know what they're doing down there I do have no question for you okay oh I'm sorry give your name oh I'm sorry my name is Beth Lewin mr. chairman your microphones not on it was see I call out myself now tractor-trailer traffic I went down that road that roads very close it's across from Hyatt run you know how many tractor-trailers are you talking in a day go in and out of there roughly some you know it it's a I don't want to say it's a seasonal but it is there'll be months in the summer where there's hardly any trucker trailers back there at all and then there are times it peak usage there's there's a lot but it would be hard for me to say 40 50 okay thank you okay I have a question in regards to the the flood floodplain yes and I don't know if it's for staff or for you this the area proposed does not inflict at all on the floodplain so when Greenway did the site plan right at least we avoided the floodplain entirely okay the map that I should have that shows all the parking lot areas does show flood zone through it if I'm reading it correctly hey Betsy was that was that a Greenway figure it was okay the applicants representative can speak to that okay okay I'm Marissa with Greenway engineering we were trying to avoid the floodplain where the where the parking lot is I think that we were just outside of it or barely in it without having that map up okay do we not have that map available that we can pull up I don't know if I'm reading it wrong or not yeah I think it was included in the agenda materials but isn't in our presentation format but we can address that at the site plan level when it's submitted okay but essentially not no parking can happen in a flood zone that's correct okay just for the record to clarify does the applicant recognize that future route 36 is not a floodplain okay that's all thank you yeah just for the record to clarify does the applicant recognize that future route 36 is not a floodplain okay does the applicant recognize that future route 36 is not a floodplain could be on your property we've known that for 20 years yes yes we absolutely know that it's not concerning you at all I just wish I wish that something would happen there because it makes it almost unsaleable when you show that plan right so fast it's amazing right right right Mr. Ward yeah Beth I was just a little confused when I drove back in there that logging yard so the truck parking thing you're proposing is right where the logging yard says to currently now you said that's not a floodplain absolutely now you said that's not a floodplain absolutely now you said that's not a floodplain they were gonna move are they gonna move somewhere else on the property or move just completely off okay thank you okay there you go anyone else on the right here okay thank you at this time open this public hearing for anyone who wants to come forward speak for or against this item please come forward state your name at stereo district and you're you've heard me say many times three minutes please well I don't me say many times three minutes please well I don't see anybody running up there Oh yes see anybody running up there Oh yes Mr. Weber got your name weak again Mr. Weber got your name weak again Mr. Weber got your name weak again my name is Mike what ever I'm from the my name is Mike what ever I'm from the Stonewall District my concern about this Stonewall District my concern about this is it really needs to be studied how is it really needs to be studied how you're gonna do there should be a light you're gonna do there should be a light there right now she says 40 trucks I there right now she says 40 trucks I'll guarantee you I see I go back and forth guarantee you I see I go back and forth by there two or three times a day and by there two or three times a day and there's always two or three and they there's always two or three and they have to pull way out to make the turn and it is dangerous and it's and I don't know how you're gonna address that go look at the width of the road there and how you're coming out on route 11 and that needs to be addressed very seriously before you do something thank you thanks sir anyone else okay I'm gonna close the public hearing commissioners discussion time yes sir Thomas little confused about the flood plane comment I agree when I look at the map it looks like about somewhere around 90% of the map is covered by a hundred year flood plain of the parking area and that's a GIS map but 2019 from aerial photography from the machine was 100 years just right there but look at this one but there you you you a hundred year flood plain maybe our maps are wrong but we got two maps that have two different things on them so which one is right I think this difference that you may be seeing between the two maps is the difference between the flood way and the hundred year flood plain as you mentioned and I think the applicant's intention and their mapping was to stay out of the flood way entirely but Knowing our requirements for the floodplain as well, when they reach the site plan process of that, they're going to have to prove that they can safely encounter the floodplain. This is your GIS 2022. The 100-year floodplain AE, that is about half of the trailer park area. So they'll have to address that in their site plan. Correct? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Further to their intentions as it relates. Okay. The map that I'm showing, it is. So maybe we don't have the updated map. Mrs. Lawson, you have a question? Yes. Is my microphone on? Now it is. Okay. Sometimes they get the floodplain cited incorrectly. I've had that experience myself. And these are tractor trailers. If you had five or six inches of floodplain rain, it wouldn't matter. I don't think it's a big deal. Your dark lines are going to flood away. You're not going to be having tractor trailers flood away from a small amount of rain. And they're assuming that this is all parking area. Even three feet. Which would reside within the 100-year floodplain. Yes. So it does reside within the 100-year floodplain. If you go to the next map. There it is. Keep on going. That dotted line through the middle of it is the 100-year floodplain. Yes. So can you please repeat the question? Well, so saying that the floodplain is basically half of the parking lot, you're going to have to address that in the site plan. Yes. Yes, we would. So how? How would that work? Permits that would be required to have parking in that area. Yeah. Okay. Any other questions? I think we're good. Thank you, ma'am. All right. Thank you. All right. Commissioners? We through discussing? Everybody happy? All right. I need a motion from the Stonewall District. On this. I move to accept this proposal. I have a motion. Do I have a second? Second. All right. Yeah. Let's recommend. You make a motion to recommend approval of CUP. I know. This is all. Okay. Okay. It's all positive. I'm going to start Mr. Triplett on this one. Mr. Triplett says no. Akins, yes. Kozo, yes. Manuel, yes. Kern, yes. Horned, yes. Thomas, yes. Bolden, yes. Dawson, yes. Markert, yes. Brumback, yes. Chairman's vote's yes. The motion's approved, and it will go before. Before. Board of Supervisors on January 11th. So. All right. Next item up is CUP permit number 1122 for Richard and Margaret Bias. Yes. Hello there, Mrs. Pelley. How are you? I'm doing well. How are you? Good to see you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, this is a conditional use permit application for a humanitarian aid organizational office. The five-acre property is located at 1107 Cedar Creek Gray. It's located in the Bat Creek Magisterial District, and the zoning is RA. The applicant proposes utilizing an existing barn on the property for an office space and a storage area for donated home furnishings, and using the driveway to access the barn that also serves the owner's residence. The applicant proposes access to the barn that will be limited to staff and volunteers of partner organizations during scheduled hours, and to those bringing donations. The applicant proposes that the site be used as a home for the and the structure on the southern end of the parcel is the applicant's residence. The definition of a humanitarian aid organization is that it is the home for the applicant's residence, and the structure on the southern end of the parcel is the applicant's residence. the soccer field on the практически everything that's been outside the competi hall, The design is based on Harvester, 그럼 뤇아는 상호를 지 genau한 방식의 방식이あります. and the zoning ordinances listed in the first bullet, is the zoning ordinances listed in the first bullet, This use is allowed in the RA district within approved CUP. Furthermore, the comprehensive plan intends for this parcel to remain rural, I both support recommending static andAT- parody at the the state level and in the biennial movement at the state level. the proposed use is consistent with that goal. Should the Planning Commission find this use to be appropriate, I would recommend the following conditions be if staff were to replace therons in the components small once each. placed on the CUP. The first is that all review agency comments and requirements will be complied with. agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. Number two, a minor site plan shall be approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use and all supplementary use regulations in Chapter 165 shall be addressed. Number three, no residential uses are permitted in any accessory structures on the property. And this one is in yellow because it was added after the agenda went out with the staff report and that was just added to clear up any confusion. Regarding people potentially living on the property. Number four is any expansion or change of use will require a new CUP. Following a public hearing, staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. I'm happy to answer any questions and the applicant, Mr. Richard Bias, is also here to answer any questions as well. Excellent. So, all right, any questions? Ms. Brumbaugh. The schedule. Hours. Are they, I mean, I assume that's going to be scheduled with the owners and the organization and would typically be daytime hours. Yeah, I believe it did say in the application daytime hours only. I know that's not very specific, but the applicant should be able to address that more specifically. If the applicant wanted to come forward and speak on that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And we consulted with a number of charitable organizations when we arrived about best possible use for this barn. We'd like to make it available to charitable organizations for their use at no cost. We want it to be in conformity with existing regulations and conditional use. And as the question came up, we haven't yet figured out exactly which hours we're going to use. we're negotiating right now with one organization. And we hope to have a consortium of organizations be able to use it over time. Mr. Thomas? Could you explain a little bit what the organizations are going to do with the barn? You're going to have people donate things, put it in the barn. Are you going to sell it out of the barn? No. Is this a storage area for? This is an existing program. Right now, the organization that we've been dealing with has been storing donated supplies at Shenandoah University in what they call the ballroom. But Shenandoah University is now taking over, and they've sort of kicked them out. So they're looking for another place more permanent to store supplies. It's mostly furniture and bedding and things. So it's just a storage area. There won't be people coming in to buy things out of there, get things out of there? There is no commercial transaction is foreseen. This is entirely a charitable organization. And there will be a site manager. There will be a little office there for them to maintain the inventory. People will come and donate. And then employees of the organization will come as needed as they set up a house. Or whatever other programs they have. But a number of organizations need space to store furniture and supplies. On the left. Anybody on the right? Okay. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you. All right. I open this public hearing to anyone who wants to come forward. State your name, at your district, and, of course, the three minutes. I don't see anybody running up here, so I'm going to close the public hearing portion of this. Commissioners, discussion. I think the only impact that we could see there would be VDOT on traffic. And they've analyzed and said they don't see any impact on Cedar Creek grade or no measurable impact. I think if it could handle the farm market, it can handle an occasional drop off of furniture or pick up of furniture. And putting the statement in for no residents was great. That really. That's a piece of mind for a lot of people. So. Okay. Well, this is Back Creek District. So. All right. Mr. Chairman. Do I have a motion? Yep. Mr. Chairman, I move that we approve use permit 22 for the Humanitarian Aid Organizational Office. All righty. Mr. Tribble, I'm going to start with you again down there. I'm going to say yes. Akins, yes. Kozo, yes. Emanuel, yes. Curran, yes. Horned, yes. Amish, yes. Holden, yes. Lawson, yes. Barkard, yes. Brumback, yes. And the chair votes yes. Okay. This will go before the Board of Supervisors on January 11th. Thank you very much. So. Oh, I'm sorry. No, no, no. December 14th. December 14th. Sorry about that. So. Come out next week. Mr. Chairman, I'll have to recuse on this next application. All righty. Thank you again, Mr. Chair. Okay. Thank you. I'm going to make a statement. The next item up is an action item regarding waiver request for Willow Run Project. Okay. How are you? I'm good. Welcome back. Thank you again. Thank you. This is a request to waive the street requirement required in the subdivision ordinance. The request is associated with a mass development plan currently under review. This is the master development plan location. It's Willow Run. And it adjoins the city property. An enlarged view of the master development plan. The Board of Supervisors may provide a waiver to a public street requirement to allow a complete system of private streets within a proffered age-restricted community. And as a condition of this request. And as required of the ordinance. The proposed street. The proposed private street base and surface shall meet or exceed VDOT standards. The staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. Thank you. Okay. This being an action item, this discussion only with the commissioners. Does anyone have any questions? Mr. Thomas. I don't have a question. But I do wish. I wish when we had private streets in these types of communities that the community developer or owner would make it very clear to the residents the cost impact that provides to them. Because they are responsible for the streets. But we don't have that requirement in our ordinance. And maybe sometime in the future we can get it in there. But if there's no additional comments, I would recommend we move that we recommend approval. Okay. Anyone else? Any other comments? Okay. Again, this is Back Creek District. So do I have a motion to approve? Yes. Mr. Chairman, let's recommend approval of the Willow Run Project waiver request for the private streets. All right. Mr. Marker, I'm going to start with you. Marker, yes. Dawson, yes. Molden, yes. Thomas, yes. Orndup, yes. Kern, yes. Kozell, yes. Warren, yes. Kuhn, yes. Kuhn, yes. Kuhn, yes. Kuhn, yes. Kuhn, yes. Kuhn, yes. Kuhn, yes. Kuhn, yes. Kuhn, yes. Kuhn, yes. Orndup, yes. Kern, yes. Kozell, yes. Akins, yes. Chirpwit, yes. And Bessie? Brumback, yes. Chairman votes yes. Okay. This moves forward. Thank you. Okay. The other item we have up, and I'm sure this is what everybody's been waiting for, is a discussion regarding the Northeast Land Use Plan. Mr. Pearce? Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Commission. So we have been looking at this. We've been working on the draft Northeast Land Use Plan, or NELUP, or NELUP, as you've heard it pronounced many different times tonight. Process so far, next steps will begin with what I explained to you all, and then public outreach and involvement, and all recommended changes, all of which was included in your packet. I hope you've had the time to review. So in November of 2021, as mentioned previously, a citizen work group was formed to discuss their vision for the community and put together a draft plan to then work its way through the process for public involvement. Now I'll quickly go throughromission of the plans for this. So in order to deliver those draft plans to the public, we were to move into a committee process. That's the first one. agency comments from our partners at VDOT, namely, as well as others, and then hold public hearings before the Planning Commission and the Board as we press towards adoption of a plan. To speak to our public outreach and information and comments, we put road signs up at the schools notifying people of the public information, meetings that we were going to have. We also posted them at the park and the convenience sites where residents dumped their trash. We sent almost 4,000 direct mailers to residents within the Northeast Land Use Plan and that resulted in nearly 2,300 unique web page visits and that's not just me on there clicking on there every time, right? That's a unique IP address so that's a really meaningful engagement number because it means that at the very least people came to the web page. Whether they choose to engage with us or not is their business. As somebody who does this for a living, I could totally get not being interested in land use planning. So, we're going to be working with the City of North Dakota to make sure that we're doing the right thing. But those who did gave us 223 survey responses which if you remember we did some involvement at the very beginning in this plan and we only got like 30 survey responses in that first initial group so we're thrilled to have that kind of participation. And then for those of you who attended our public information sessions, you saw Jordan Springs and Stonewall Elementary. We had over 100 people out listening to the presentation and participating at those events. So I'm going to kind of go over some of the data that came out of that. You saw in my staff report you have the full text and packet as well as some of the comments that everybody wrote when they filled out the surveys but we just generated some quick drafts to kind of articulate some of the high points of what we heard through the survey responses. So, as mentioned previously, one of the topics that was really important to people who live and work in this community is the continued preservation of agricultural land, rural land, and cultural resources. Those other elements, more retail shopping, more rec opportunities, housing, they were somewhat important to some people but not nearly as much so as agricultural and rural land preservation. As Northeast Frederick County is predicted to grow, which issues should we be prioritizing? Managing heavy truck traffic and traffic circulation and the access to the interstate and the protection of natural and historic resources for future generations ranked the highest out of that grouping. Moving on, noticing that we're changing colors, bars, I would note that that is a change from blue was what is important to you, orange what is not important to you. So, the same question which the following topics are important to you, somebody who lives and works here, as you can see it's kind of even across the board of things that are not necessarily important and my means of interpreting that data would say that it's indicative that development as a whole may not be particularly desirable in this area, additional development because every single one of the categories was not viewed as favorable. And when you weigh that against the blue responses, you have preservation of ag land and historic resources. On the other side of that, Northeast Frederick County is predicted to continue to grow, which the following issues should we prioritize? Expansions of extractive mining operations ranked very highly as not being important at all and then additional warehouse and distribution types was also about midway up there as well. At our public information meetings, we conducted what's called a preference and we were able to change some of the survey where we write a question to the participants and then ask them to fill out a quick card that saying whether they agreed somewhat agreed no had no opinion somewhat disagreed or disagreed these are the responses to those i'll read each question and then point to the largest responses for your all's information frederick county is projected to continue to grow in the future there should be a balance of future industrial commercial and residential growth to minimize taxes for residents largely everybody agreed with that statement sub subject a few question number two new industrial uses should be carefully evaluated to maximize economic development opportunity targeted industries tax revenue generation high paying job creation and minimize impacts again something that a lot of people agreed with the exercising discretion as we approve rezoning applications for what types of industry we want to constitute that broader tax base that we were talking about in the previous session and i'll read the next question and then point to the question that we were talking about in the original question question three frederick county is well positioned for additional logistic and distribution type industries with convenient access to 81 freight rail and the virginia inland port these types of uses shall be well planned for and minimize impacts largely everybody agreed with that statement question number four northeast frederick county is well positioned for energy intensive industries such as advanced and specialized manufacturing biosciences cold storage and data hosting these industries should be prioritized over logistics and distribution type uses again similarly to the logistics and distribution type uses it was agreed that those should be prioritized over that that comes with the caveat necessary as to whether or not the utilities can be found to meet those needs and attract that type of industry question five and there's only six here so know that i'm not going to continue forever the completion of route 37 around the eastern portion of the county would relieve congestion on numerous local routes and have been congested for a long time and the higher the risk of congestion would have been reduced as the county has grown and would offer relief to i-81 develop development applications within the area should prioritize the preservation of right-of-way for 37 and its construction largely people agree with that that concept as you well know finally question six previous feedback from the community indicated overwhelming concerns with the expansions of extracted mining however extractive mining if properly planned for and managed to minimize impacts can be an asset to frederick county overwhelming disagreed with that statement. That's not clear by the change of colors on the graph there. So as we plan for our communities, planners look to take public input and consolidate that into the plans they're working on. Staff has developed a set of recommendations that we think in some ways honors some of the input that you just heard and is going to quickly go through what some of those changes are. I do want to note that our current recommendations don't exactly align with what came out of the Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee and they were not granted the opportunity to be a part of this public input process so they don't have that same information that I just showed you when they provided you a recommended draft plan. This was a plan update not a full reevaluation of all of our future land uses so when it seems like we focused on specific areas that is by design. We did not go into in-depth evaluation of all of the industrially planned areas. It was assumed that the Northeast land use plan was developed correctly originally and we were looking to update it by adding text and evaluating very specific circumstances that either came up as property owner requests or developer requests or things that jumped out at us as being problematic. One thing I do want to clear up regardless of what staffs recommendation is and how this plan continues to move forward, property owners or developers are entitled to submit their own comprehensive plan amendments and conduct the necessary studies on their behalf to prove to the Planning Commission that whatever it is their request is, they are entitled to submit their own comprehensive plan amendments and conduct the necessary studies on their behalf to prove to the Planning Commission that whatever it is their requesting of you is an appropriate modification to the comprehensive plan. In my opinion as your planning director in some instances of what we explored here I think there may be some merit to property owner and developer requests that we received but it is not supposed to be beholden on my staff to justify those requests through further studies. I think that the private industry may need to make that case in greater detail if they truly feel that that change should be made. Just wanted to make that clear. Following information is what staffs recommending to change since you were last updated in August. So the properties and these items correlate to places on the map that I'm going to point to and I'll be going back and forth between the slides but the properties on the northeast portion of Old Charlestown Road and Route 11 we received a request from a property owner and developer to incorporate multi-family residentials and allowed use in that area in order to help shore up the reality of trying to attract an anchor tenant namely a grocery store to that area. We recommend denial of that request. It is outside of the urban development area and not even close to the urban development area and if we were to bring the urban development area further out we think that there should be further study funded by private developers to figure out if that's an appropriate move for for the county. So just to orient you to where that one was that's your black box down here right on the north side of Old Charlestown Road and the corner of Route 11 in that intersection. Property northwest of Hopewell Road and Martinsburg Pike is a request for an alternative Hopewell Road realignment that would allow for the property to be accessed and developed for commercial uses. You all may be familiar with we've had a long-running plan to realign Hopewell and Brewstown Road by bringing Hopewell Road north to meet Brewstown at its existing interchange with Route 11. This alternative request would reroute Hopewell Road through the property that's currently a farm field that's just north of Hopewell Road. And intersect it closer further north with Route 11 and allow for that property to then develop that property with land base along that rerouted Hopewell Road. It would require the disconnection of the existing Hopewell Road crossing at the railroad crossing. So if you think about the old stone convenience store that's right there if you were to turn left there on the Hopewell Road you couldn't go over the railroad track anymore to get the interstate you would continue north on Route 11 and take a left further up on Hopewell Road and snake your way back to get onto the interstate. This idea requires further study but we think that there is potential merit to it as a potential alternative into the future. So to that end we think incorporating it as an alternative for that realignment in our comprehensive plan if an application were to come forward in the future and study could be funded by the private industry to figure out if it's the right way to realign Hopewell and Brewstown. We still plan to keep the original proposed Hopewell Road realignment where it's not just a temporary alternative to the original plan. We're hoping to bring it north to meet Brewstown Road as a secondary alternative for that area. Quickly to orient you that's your black box right in there apologize for small maps it's a large area. Properties in the vicinity of Branson Springs Road, Woodbine Road and Grace Church Road this was a submission by Carmoose for the expansion of extractive mining areas in the 400 acres that they mentioned. Originally it was scoped at 575 acres. It's been confined or reduced by their engineers to figure out only the exact amount of property that they need which we much appreciate. Our recommendation is to plan for uses that better align with the community's desires for that area and represent higher and better uses for the property. To that end staff is recommending removing the extractive mining designation from the draft plan and adding a mix of industrial and mixed-use industrial office which is somewhat similar to the adopted plan that's on the books now with the exception of the current designations of heavy industrial and warehousing that are on your adopted plan as it stands right now. Everybody's familiar with that area and I have the other old maps for both what came out of the citizens work group and the conference plans and programs committee that I can fast forward to if there's any questions. Number four of five properties southwest of Rush Church Road, Woodbine Road and Grace Church Road. Number four of five properties southwest of Rush Church Road and Grace Church Road. and Grace Church Road and Grace Church Road. and Zachary and Lane you may be familiar with these properties as they are those that are included in the Fruithill rezoning application that was postponed this evening. Staffs recommendation and we're sorry the request was to modify the existing adopted plan to change those properties from mixed-use industrial office to industry which would much better align with the proposed rezoning application. Staffs recommendation is to plan for uses that better align with the community's desires namely the comments we received related to heavy truck traffic and the intersection and uses that better represent the highest and best use for those properties and again minimize truck traffic at the interchange. Those are those properties right in there. Lastly bullet number five or sorry number number five if you will miscellaneous plan modifications staff made some minor changes to our transportation network that were really just correcting streets that have been constructed or projects that have been proposed. We recommend on the main land use plan removing the designation for sensitive natural areas but keeping it on the accessory map related to natural resources and historic resources modifying the split interchange between Hopewell and Cedar Hill Road to be represented how it is currently on your adopted plan and then representing the higher-run apartments as residential for the foreseeable future they're going to remain that way given the project that was constructed there. Happy to answer any questions on that and I'll pause the there before concluding. But these are the maps as you had in your packet minor modifications to land use map themselves otherwise the rest of them kind of remain the same. This is a draft plan that's presented for the Planning Commission for discussion. We're seeking comments to forward to the Board of Supervisors as we bring it forward to them to authorize a draft plan for public hearing in the new year. Happy to answer any questions Mr. Commissioner. Yeah I'll start on the left. I'm going to start on the right. Any questions on the right? Did I hear you say that you're going to wait to get critical reporting agencies such as VDOT, Fire Rescue, Public Works and all that? Yes sir. Once we have a plan that the Board feels is appropriate to advertise for public hearing we'll then send it out to those agencies to ensure that they've had an opportunity to look at it and comment on it. Namely VDOT has a state code requirement that they are allowed 30 days to review any comprehensive plan changes. Okay thank you. Yes sir. Anybody else? I would like to say thank you for you and your staff for all the work you've done on this and taking the public's input. I live in that area, I live in the Northeast and I know a lot of people have been very engaged so thank you to you and your staff for taking the time and making the adjustments. Just for the folks here tonight since this is public meeting can you just for them real quick and just for everyone to explain kind of what what has happened in the public hearing? Sure. So what's going on with the zoning system and what happens with the Northeast land use plan compared to the comprehensive plan? What would the result be if this were to move forward? Does this change the zoning what is what does this do? Yeah I really appreciate. Or is that the end of your? Am I jumping ahead on you? No thank you. I appreciate you asking for that clarification both for the Commission's benefit and the citizens here today. Our comprehensive plan serves as a guideline for both this body and your elected officials at the Board of Supervisors when handling when handling related issues. And that's why I'm here to speak with you today. Thank you. Thank you. rezoning applications and conditional use permits like you saw some of tonight. So it is a guideline in that respect. And as they evaluate those applications that come before them, they consult it because it is supposed to be somewhat representative of the community's interests and what may be best for Frederick County. The Northeast land use plan is technically an appendix of the comprehensive plan that's designated as a small area plan is in more detail than the rest of the comprehensive plan for the specific area that we're looking at. Is that kind of covered? Thank you for the clarification. Yes, sir. Okay. On my left. Any questions? Mr. Thomas? I have a number of questions. It looks like we got 100 responses, 217 participants. What is the population of that area, that 23,000 acres? I do not know that answer off the top of my head, but I should. And I apologize. But the best metric I can use for you right now is the number of letters we sent out. But that is not representative. That is not representative of actual population. That is property ownership. So that was 4,000. So if you applied, you know, a traditional or what we use as our metric for a family size for that, you could multiply it by 2.5 and be kind of in the ballpark. Okay. And the reason I ask that question is I really appreciate public comment. And I appreciate public comment, you know, from the standpoint of gives us a planning commission and the board an idea of where we should go. We should go with these things. But we've got to be very careful that we don't let a hundredth of the population dictate where we go with planning. And, you know, we have to also look at what's, you know, the future of the county, what's best for the county, what's best for the other 99.9% of the population of the county. And I just want to make sure that we don't get tied into something based on one or two comments or a hundred comments out of 16,000 people. So that that's a little, my concern, it's very easy. And, you know, I don't live there. Unfortunately, I don't live there, you know, one way or the other, but we're talking about people's livelihoods, both the people that are here commenting and the people that own the land that are there and the businesses are there. So if we're going to take somebody's ability away and yeah, the knee LEP is not chiseled in stone, but it is like you said, it's a guide. Okay. Okay. It's a guideline. And we and the staff have used it in the past to disapprove zoning requests or to encourage other types of zoning requests. Well, when we start doing that and we're taking away people's livelihood, you know, if you, if you're a farmer that's lived there for 50 years and you have a farm and you have two sons that have gone away to engineering school and don't want to be farmers anymore, what do you do with the property? You know, we have a lot of farmland. And a lot of apple orchards are sitting there not being used now. Does that mean we're, you know, yeah, we want agriculture. I've been on a planning commission for a long time. And we always said that west of 81 is all agriculture. East of 81 was where we were going to have all the businesses. Well, that's not going to work anymore because we have farms that, you know, people, the siblings don't want to farm them anymore. The descendants don't want to farm them. Farming is tough. I mean, I grew up on a farm, you know, that getting up at four and five in a morning to milk cows and all that stuff, it's not a lifestyle that a lot of people want to do. It's a very hard life. We need farming. But we have to be very careful that we don't let less than a half a percent of the population dictate where the county goes. We also, you know, it's something I'm a little concerned about. I mean, this isn't as straightforward as a rezoning. But what impacts when we start changing things like saying, well, you can't use extractive mining. We don't want to use extractive mining anymore. We don't want warehousing there. Changing the designation from office to industrial. Is that borderlining on a taking of the person's rights on that property? Because if they come back in for a rezoning, and previously the comp plan and the NELUP said, well, yes, you could, you know, we would approve or extractive mining is appropriate there. Now we've changed our mind. It's not appropriate anymore. So we're not going to approve the rezoning. Have we changed their ability to do business here? Have we taken that value of that property away from the property owner? And I just want to be very careful. And I mean, this is a question for council. You know, are we borderlining? Are we on the border of a taking? It's very obvious if it's a rezoning and we downzone a rezoning, whether what's a taking and what isn't. But when you start doing it in the NELUP or the comprehensive plan, you start getting into a very gray area. And I want to make sure we're not stepping into that gray area. And I also want to make sure we're not taking people's abilities to use their land. Now, use it responsibly. I mean, I think all of the goals that are in here of what people want to do, they're great. But at some point, you know, just like Fruit Hill, I'll use that as an example. If the people that live there want it to be a farm and they don't want warehouses there, they have the opportunity to buy the land. Make it whatever you want. But if you don't own the land, you know, the owner of that land has some rights. And that goes with all of the land up there. Even our friends, Kermuse, they have some rights. They own the property. You know, as much as we want or don't want an extracting mining process here, where is the limit on, you know, that the government and that the, you know, 1% of the population or 10% of the population can trade? What's here? Now, I'm not saying that those poor residents up there aren't impacted significantly by Kermuse. But, you know, it is what it is. And they were there. They've been there a long time. Some of the residents have been there a long time. So where does their rights end and the property owner's rights begin? And that's where I'm a little torn with the NELIP. And there's some things in the NELIP that I don't, I think we're stepping over our bounds as a government guidance agency on what we should recommend and what's best for the community and best for the county. You know, I don't have a good conclusion. Dealt with this for a long time. We never get a lot of comments on comprehensive plans and land use plans. But we've got to, you know, it just bothers me when we're going to be swung by a tenth of a percent of the population or less. And that's something that, you know. It's a fine line. We've got to walk down and see where we go with it. Yeah, absolutely. A lot to unpack there. I wish I would have brought my pencil up here so I could make notes as you spoke. But I'll try to get back through all of that. The comments about public involvement are well taken on my part. Having participated in planning processes for the majority of my career, I have never been thrilled by public output and input and the amount of involvement that I always thought was going to come, right? But I would counter that point to one extent. And that's, I wouldn't say take it on its face value and do everything that you hear in the survey responses. But the reason it is of value is that if you don't take that into account in some context, that percentage that you mentioned that they are of the population is even smaller if it's just the planning commission and elected officials making these decisions in a vacuum. So it's got to factor in in some way how you all have the hard job of filtering that and then thinking about what's best for the county as a whole. I don't envy your position in that. As it relates to the comments about a taking, it's a very specific term, a legal term, and it does not apply to comprehensive plan modifications. In my experience or knowledge on that, and I'll seek counsel's confirmation that it's namely as you related to downzonings, that you have the opportunity to potentially put yourself into a place with a taking, as well as a couple other circumstances that arise from ordinance requirements and things of that nature. But if any of that is not true, then I don't think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea to have a law that says that if anybody were to make the assumption that just because their land is planned in the comprehensive plan for an industrial use, that that is a right that they inherently have, then they have done the wrong thing in purchasing that property, assuming a return to that effect. It needs to be zoned in order to grant them that right. The rights that they have are only what is in the exact zoning district that they're designated, whether that be RA or business or otherwise. Did I miss anything of any of the topics? I know it's all up for debate, right? But to your comments, we'll consolidate any information we get from the Planning Commission tonight and pass that along to the Board of Supervisors as it moves through the process. So as always, thank you for your comments, Mr. Thomas. Ms. Dawson. I have some comments relative to what Roger just said about small portions of the community choosing things for the entire county. My remarks have aimed at preventing another Clorox disaster that should have been a significant addition to our tax base. The loss of Clorox was the result of a very active but tiny part of Frederick County that pressured a poor decision onto the rest of us. This group, led by Brenda Fristow and supported by Supervisor McCann-Slaughter, were very much not in my backyard thinking as is the case now. The irony of this sabotage was that West Virginia got all the revenue from the Clorox project and the tax gains, but the locals got additional truck traffic because of the tax gains. So I think that's a very important point. The loss of all the limestone is now and will continue to be trucked to West Virginia. And if Clorox had been approved, the limestone would have been moved by conveyor to the Clorox plant and the only truck traffic would have been finished product. If the extractive mining acreage is not approved, there will be more unintended traffic consequences if and when Carmoose runs out of the limestone in their present location. There will be another unintended traffic disaster because limestone, which is the most important part of the project, will be hauled through Middletown to Highway 81 and to the Clearbrook plant to be processed where the $90 million processing equipment is located. This would be up to 200 truckloads a day on 81 going to Clearbrook and 20 empty coming back. And this could be up to 20 trucks per hour during operation hours on 81. That's a disaster. The other thing that I'd like to address is the CPPC. That's a group of planners, planning commissioners, and concerned citizens who volunteer. They made adjustments to the plan the citizens group generated. And this is most likely because the citizens were never provided with enough info to make such critically important decisions. And much of their import was based on locally organized resistance. So that's back to these small groups of people determining what's going to happen in Frederick County that affects all of us taxpayers. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Markert. Yes, I have a question. We have a comprehensive plan committee. And they make a recommendation. And they make a recommendation. And they make a recommendation. And they make a recommendation. And they make a recommendation. Now, you've changed their recommendation. Do both plans go to the Board of Supervisors? Do both plans go to the Board of Supervisors? That is an option that the planning commission can suggest is for the board to consider the Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee's recommendation or the planning commission could offer the comment that they feel the board should kick this back to the Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee for further consideration and study. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. When I look at the numbers, I see that in the survey now, I see that people who either are against or oppose or don't care are 78% by my numbers. People who don't care are 78% and the other people who don't care are 78%. The other thing that I'm aware of is that the number of people who oppose or don't care are 78%, by my numbers. By my numbers. By my numbers. who don't care or oppose additional manufacturing are 68%. Those who oppose warehousing and distribution uses, those who oppose and are neutral, 83%. So we've got a lot of opposition to all of our choices. So I would argue against drawing too much of a fine point on going by these numbers to change, to have a major impact on what Roger said about extractive mining versus others. And in trying to, another point I wanna make is of the additional area of 400 acres, there's gonna be 325 acres that are not a whole. So, whatever they do with the piles they put on it, that stuff can be moved to put in a data center, which is highly unlikely to ever happen. Or it can be moved for warehouses or whatever else. And I'm thinking, I know you don't wanna, nobody wants to hear this, but if we combined industrial, and industrial mining, extractive mining together and designated at that, then it's an issue of Keramos coming and making their case for the land that they own, based and they're not excluded by the idea of being limited by the NILA. I mean, there's a valid concern that we have that if this is a general picture of where we want the community to go and not a legal edict, but yet it's sometimes taken as a legal edict, let's not take away the ability for Keramos to come in for the rezoning. No. Nothing in the draft plan recommended by anybody or staff will prevent Keramos from filing a rezoning application. The only thing that changes is in our comments, we have to make it clear to both the planning commission and the board whether or not the application is in conformance with the comprehensive plan. And so please don't take the draft plan modifications as any barrier to them continuing to make requests for rezoning applications. If I communicated that, I hope. I didn't mean to misspeak in that regard. I'm speaking from a high level of ignorance, so don't worry about that. Thank you. Ms. Brumbaugh? I just have a question. A lot of the map is the mixed-use industrial office. What is your vision for that? Or not, I guess the striped? Yeah, that is the correct term. Absolutely, yeah. What do you consider mixed-use? I'm not sure I can answer that question. I can't speak to the original designation. I think Paige and Roger were both on the planning commission at the time when the concept was initialized. All I can speak to is what is in the comprehensive plan and other appendices right now. As you may be aware, the Northeast Land Use Plan currently does not have guiding text. It got struck in 2014-2015, so this portion of the comp plan doesn't define it right now. Our proposed text mirrors that. That's in the other. Areas of Frederick County's comp plan, and those focus on EDA target industries. I think originally it was conceptualized, Paige. I remember you mentioning to me that if a manufacturer wanted to come and then bring their headquarters adjoining their manufacturing operation, that might be an ideal use. Current EDA targets do include data centers, but it's not the only thing that they're seeking to attract to our community. I think I provided to the CPPC a list of those targeted uses, and I can distribute that. I can send that to the planning commission again in the future, but much of that escapes me right now. Is the warehousing, is that considered industrial? A component of warehousing could be appropriate in a mixed-use industrial office and be comprehensive plan consistent. As long as it was kind of mixed in with other. Exactly. Much of the language for mixed-use industrial office discourages heavy truck traffic, namely, but we are living as realists in this world, and any manufacturer needs some amount, and we're not going to be able to do that. We have their own construction. They have their own hardware with the same amount of warehousing to support their existing operations. As your planning staff, we're interpreting it as loosely as we can to say, sure, warehousing has to happen to further industry uses, but a proposal that is entirely warehousing may not be representative of the comp plans intentions. Again, they could still file and we would just provide advice as to how we're interpreting the conference plan. I guess I'm still confused. hood. You look at the truck traffic at hood, that's just as heavy as a warehouse would be. Yeah, and I think the distinguishing factor between an industrial future land use designation that may be appropriate for a hood is that the mixed use industrial office designation text calls for hood to be a part of it rather than it just to be that warehousing designation. Because hood does have and generate a lot of heavy truck traffic. It's the nature of the business for exporting the product that they work on and manufacture there. However, if hood wasn't part of that, then there's a major economic benefit in the name of jobs, capital investment, and tax revenue that is lost and the heavy truck traffic is still the component of it. Does that make sense? Let me say, you don't have to agree with that for me to say whether that makes sense or not, but that's kind of the intention of that future land use designation is to distinguish between those types of industries. And ensure that we're seeking industry that makes the best use of the land and provides an economic benefit to the county and by meeting those metrics that the EDA seeks for high paying jobs, capital investment, and otherwise. Mr. Chair? Yeah. Go ahead. Well, I have one question, then I'll have a couple comments. Now, you said earlier, I like the way you worded it, and I was afraid I would screw it up if I tried to repeat it. And it was something to the effect of when when someone, somebody buys a piece of land, we, it's basically set up what it's zoned for that at that moment, we don't have to guarantee anything past what it's zoned for at that moment. So can you just word that again for me real quick before I speak? Yeah, anybody making any sort of investment in a piece of property needs to consider the current zoning on their property. Other, you know, speculation on what our comprehensive plan says and where they could achieve a rezoning, in my opinion is, you know, not an advisable way to view the purchase of property. It's the reason why many of the people that you see up here with their engineering firms and their land use attorneys get contracts for purchase and don't buy the property prior to getting the rezoning approved, because there are no guarantees when you come before this body and the ones who appointed you and that to that end. All right, well, thank you for rewording that. So one of the things that I, you know, and I was one, you heard Gary Oates speak first, one of the five people that was on that citizen work group, and we had great conversations, been really, really good talks. And I think some of the business people if you look around Wildściew Phom do see a lot of the Reynolds bueno developer's site. And one of the interesting things that you mentioned as part of that, the 무��wa tha community interact us and connect groups. So, so yeah, that's kind of has a lot of him tower of the China's gilt and on is general typeteil that local andacial people. And the Department of mascara. And call thatırım of phone? Yeah, and thirdly, is the gent Gee does officer of news authority in two in Hen quilomar West, fairly strong and calling out the antechamber check or KleinDING ge pena is somehow open. You know, how they feedback, I mean, those own idea public that they, they don't know what we need to go to see.blank. county and what land designation would be for the future regardless of who the landowner is or who the landowner may be right so when we're talking about the needle up i think it's important to understand that it's through that lens not not regardless of who owns the property or who maybe wants to own the property so i think that if we can look at it through that lens i think it settles a lot of arguments maybe we might have because whatever the land is zoned today for when you buy it is you know that's the guarantee we have for anybody that would buy property so thank you for that mr akins um i'm all over the place on this thing to be honest with you um and a lot of it boils down to betsy the comments you made and in regards to the om roger some of your comments you made on the livelihood of property owners um there's been a lot of effort put into this for the past year and um i guess one of my biggest hang-ups now that's coming out is that the drrc committee is revamping the om district and so the general public necessarily doesn't know what all those changes are the property owners don't know what those are um and we're asking to seek feedback when me as a planning commissioner i don't even know what all the things are because i'm not on that committee so i can't necessarily sit here confidently and say you know what we got this figured out because we don't um because at the end of the day a lot of work and effort was spent by citizens other commissioners on a plan and as gary said if i me and charlie sit down put a plan together it's going to be completely different than if page and roger put one together but that plan is not what we're looking at and not what's going to be recommended and i just have got a lot of problems with us getting the cart before the horse on not getting the om figured out so that we as commissioners know what it is can speak confidently of what it is and be able to send it to the board of supervisors and say hey you know what we can do on that the way we can laying across what's it for and do it based upon what we know uh or more zooming that we're there and squeaky with Remington andurg going to see what the process looks like as far as not having to feed all of those Blaze and build the truck a lot of key actions two not only do you need to waste theظль um OM district, figure that out on what we're going to be so that in turn, Carmus or some of the other landovers on this side of the room knows what your land could potentially be. Could be OM, could be M1. We haven't really figured that out yet. And you may be completely against OM at the end of the day. But you don't know that. I don't know that. And I think we need to figure that out. I agree. Mr. Drimmer? I don't know it either. Thank you. You don't know either? Yeah. Mr. Wilkins? Mr. Chairman, just one clarification for Mr. Aikens' comments for those who aren't involved in the ordinance amendment process. It had previously been interpreted that mixed-use industrial office could only be rezoned and be comp plan consistent to the district that Mr. Aikens is describing. Part of the changes we're making to that ordinance is to decouple this future land use designation in the zoning district. And allow for a new land use. And allow for exactly what Mrs. Brumback was hinting at, which is a mix of different zoning designations to be an appropriate designation to that effect for mixed-use industrial office. And so his comments are well taken for sure on that. One piece of advice for the commission as they consider that is plans and efforts to develop plans can get stale if they stick around for too long prior to adoption. I'm not thinking that Mr. Aikens is thinking we're going to take an additional year to half or anything like that. But it's just worth mentioning. Any more comments? Excuse me, sir? Mr. Thomas? I agree with all the comments that have been made. And I'm very confused on this. I don't really know where to go with it. I don't know what is the right answer, what is the wrong answer. But I'm a little concerned that staff has taken recommendations from the committee, from the CPPC, and from the public, and is going to submit something else to the board. I really think that staff needs to go back to the CPPC and come up with one plan before it goes to the board. Because right now you have probably half of the planning commission that doesn't support the plan. So does the planning department really want to send something forward that half the planning commission doesn't support? And I hear what you say. What do you say about the NELIP? And I hear what you've said it a number of times about, well, it's just a guide. But then you've also said when something comes in, if it's not in conformance with the comprehensive plan and the NELIP, we're not going to recommend approval to the board. So, I mean, we're kind of on both sides of the coin here. We've got to have it one way or the other. So I...
