Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2022-08-10
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=158
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mike Shotroff. Hello, I'm Mike Shotroff. I live in Peckin District. According, like with Wayne's Lane, we've been talking about this now for like five, six months. I hope we can do, like the cup or something tonight. Let's get this resolved with all of them. That way we don't have to keep coming back. And we're always put at the end of the meeting instead of in the beginning or the middle of the meetings. We got canceled last month because one party was off and they didn't want to have the votes. That wasn't right. That's not our fault that we couldn't be here. You know, we're wasting our time. A lot of our time. And we're getting, we feel like we're getting nowhere. And it's not right. You know, I know y'all have your jobs to do, but, you know, we're trying to get this resolved and resolved the right way. Not going back to 1800s and like they used to, like you, like you said, or anything like that. I'm just, I'm tired. I'm, I'm about ready to drop the fight because I'm just tired of it. Let's get something resolved on it. Please. And please, that one cop. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Sue case. Welcome. Hi, my name is Sue case and I live in the Opec and district. I'm here tonight to try to save Wayne's lane. This lane is privately maintained and was originally intended to be used by residents to approach their properties. Now it's being used to access, excuse me, um, I'm sorry, I lost my place. Now it's being used to access an STL Airbnb as well. This business is causing over abuse and abuse to the lane on a frequent basis. Vehicles approaching the STL drive way too fast, causing potholes and excessive dust. I'm sure that there are many STLs in the county that are in locations that don't affect residents, but this is not one of them. They're absolutely. It needs to be regulations on how an STL is at access, especially when it comes to a private lane. I understand there's two scenarios on the table. I feel that scenario a would not be fair to the residents that live on Wayne's Lane. I realize that some board members feel that homeowner should be able to do whatever he or she wants to do on their property, but that isn't very realistic when there's other people that will be. Affected. I feel that allowing this STL to use Wayne's Lane has created many issues that the residents have to deal with. I feel then that not every barn in Frederick County needs to be turned into an event center and not every home needs to be turned into an STL. There needs to be restrictions on how the property is accessed. Thank you. Brian Nury. Welcome, sir. Welcome. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Brian Nury from the Opecan District. When I was at the meeting last month, we all witnessed a rather shameful issue over a CUP, and it was from that same person that we've talked about time and time again. And I was thinking back to a couple months ago when we were going over budget issues, and this supervisor made a statement. He said, he said that he had a special needs brother of his own. Well, we looked into it. You, in fact, do have a special needs brother. Let me read you a letter that he wrote to the Rockingham County Court. I was beat up a lot when I was a little kid. This is what my parents did to me. This is what they use ping pong paddles as fly swatter, rolling pin, rulers, etc, etc. I'm going to go over some, pass over some of the more prurient parts to get to the point that I'm trying to make. If I didn't grab the bullwhip, I would have been a little bit more of a I would not be in this mess. I would be in the grave. Mr. Graver, you're a monster. I don't know why you sit on this board, and I don't know why you pontificate to be a perfect person. This will go to the paper. This will go to the clerk, and this will go to your church. Thank you very much. Please resign. Josh Phelps. Welcome, sir. I'm Patrick. I just came tonight to follow up on a letter that I sent to all of you. In regards to the budgeting process, I was present at some of the meetings this past spring when the budgeting process got a little hairy a few times. And so I was trying to think, whenever I do that kind of look and see that kind of thing, I'm in the manufacturing business. So I always look at process. Can we improve the process a little bit? In my mind, the way to improve that process is to ask our county departments to consider using zero-based budgeting practices when they present their budget. When they present their budgets each year. One of the things I have the pleasure to do for our small business is our large capital expenditures. So when you're buying equipment, replacing equipment, things like that. And sometimes these are large dollar items. And whenever a salesman comes in, they always start with the question, what's your budget? Now, if I gave them a number, that piece of equipment would be exactly the price of the number I gave them. So I always tell them my budget is zero right now. But here are my needs. Here's what I have to do. Here's what I need this piece of equipment to do. When I'm done installing it in my business. Now you tell me how much money I need to make that happen. That's what a needs-based budget looks like. That's what a zero-based budget looks like. You start at zero. You add in your needs. You figure out what it takes to get the job done. And then you present that to whomever you need to. In the private sector, we have another side of the equation that public sector employees don't have to worry about, which is return on investment. I've got to make a return to the owners of the business. Maybe I've got to explain this to a bank or a lending institution of some kind. So if there's pushback from department heads about how hard this might be, I would say, well, you only have to do half as much work as I have to do. And I still have to pay your taxes and your salary. So that seems like a worthy endeavor to me. Changes like this are tough. But now is the time to do it. We are not in a financial crisis in Frederick County. We are not in dire straits. There could be some linear times coming in the future. They will, inevitably. So now is the time to look at this stuff in detail. Set the standard for the state of Virginia. Be a leader in the state. Why wait for someone else to do it? We have the opportunity to do it here. And I think it would be beneficial to all of us. It might even do something crazy like incentivize savings by departments or cost-cutting measures, which would be welcome for all of us as taxpayers. So thank you for your time. Thanks for your consideration. And thanks for your service. Thank you, sir. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Consent agenda. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. How would the Board like to handle the consent agenda? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. And a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graver? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Schlatter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye. The motion carries. Consent agenda is adopted as presented. Any other questions? No. No. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. We have water here. All right, that brings us to county officials. The progress report on the public safety radio system project. Mr. Chairman, I believe you missed board comments. What did I miss? Board of Supervisors comments. I'm sorry, I did. Board of Supervisors comments. Are there any? Yes, sir. Supervisor Dine. So there's probably going to be a public announcement, but we are going to have glass recycling beginning in the middle of this month. So if you have bottles, we can recycle them. The caps have to be off. They have to be empty. But we are recycling glass, and so that would be helpful to everybody that was wanting to do that. I know that Mrs. Poppington has worked on that. It's been a great job for the last two years. So if you can go and do clean glass, we're good to go. Please do that. It helps everybody. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? Hearing none, we'll move on to progress report, public safety radio system project. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Chairman. I promised everyone. I don't believe that's... Let's see. That's it. Thank you. I promised everyone an update on the radio. As I sent out a report earlier, so we're going to give a more detailed update tonight. We have representatives from both EF Johnson and Tusa here. I was going to give you a brief history of how we got to this point. Primarily, I know Supervisor Loebig wasn't on the board at this time, so he may not be familiar with the process. So I'll go over how this took place to start. Initially, it started. The county did. It was a needs assessment followed by a criteria for an RFP. Once that RFP was... Criteria was established, the RFP was sent out. We received submittals. After those submittals, the county took orals from two of the candidates for the radio project. Once those orals were done, they selected two candidates for negotiation. The county went through a process of negotiation and selected one of those candidates. And at that point after that, a contract was signed. This is a brief timeline. I'm not going to go into some detail just to give you an idea of the timeframe that took place. In October 2018, Mission Critical was hired. They began a study in June 2019. The study was presented to the board in December. They also did a siren analysis presentation. In March of 2020, the RFP was released. Responses were due in June. And then... Following that, we went to... In the year 2020, there were several meetings. We had regular work sessions, closed work sessions. And then finally, there was a meeting in May of 2021. And in 2021, they selected the candidate, which was EF Johnson. And at that point, the contract shortly thereafter was signed in August of 2021. And you all were sent a copy of that contract. And at that point, I'm going to hand it over. And we have here from EF Johnson tonight, Phil Rowland, who's the project manager. Mitch... Urbanchik, who is the vice president of government sales. And we also have here our contract managers who are managing this for us, which is Dennis Ward from TUSA and Rebecca Norwood, I think who is more of the technical person. So I'm going to hand it over to them. Good evening, everyone. Thank you so very much for making time for us. Honorable supervisors, Vice Chairman McCarthy, Chairman DeHaven. My name is Mitch Urbanchik. I had the privilege of working on your project for quite some time. So it's good to be here again. I'd like to introduce our project manager, Phil Rowland, who will update you on the progress of the project. Thank you, Mitch. And good evening, Board of Supervisors. We appreciate this opportunity. As a quick introduction and a real quick bio, I spent 20 years with the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department deploying large-scale communications and technology systems. So I've run the gamut of just records management systems, AFIS systems, fingerprint systems, geo-management systems. And yes, I've done a few land mobile radio systems as well. So I guess the point of that is I not only understand the land mobile radio world, but I also understand the first responder world very well. I do ask if you have any questions, if you don't mind holding them to the end. If I've done my job right, I may answer a few as I'm going along. So if you don't mind, I'll go ahead and get started. The design of the system was contracted as a 10-site system, and it is still a 10-site system today. I'm not going to read through all this. This will all be in your files. But I guess the point of this slide is it is a system that you asked for. It's a system that we bid on from both a P25 radio perspective and also the last bullet, the VHF paging system is also a four-site system. So the system today is as we imagined it at the time of contract. It's a map of Frederick County, as I'm sure you guys know well. I won't go through all the sites. Again, this will be in your file. But you can see the 10 sites that are identified. The one I want to point out is the Cottontown site down in just outside the county there in the southwest. As I understand it, that was a site that was identified in the RFP by Frederick County. So EF Johnson decided to use that site as one of the 10 sites. I know there's been some questions about that in the past. Project schedule, you know, I won't run through the entire schedule. But of particular note is the first bullet point there. The detailed design review is the next large milestone that we have. And that will be, we'll actually run that in December, on December 7th of this year. That'll be the detailed design. As you can see, there are several other steps in the process. But I want to also focus on the last bullet, the final system acceptance date. That changes, that date has not changed. We are still on schedule as noted when we kicked off the project. Just talked about the detailed design review. So I think it's important to talk about the steps and the work that's been ongoing over the past six to nine months in allowing us to get to where we are today. First of all, you have to conduct site visits. Now typically site visits are conducted during the procurement phase. But there were travel restrictions during that time and vendors weren't allowed to get to the site. So we had to conduct these site visits after the notice proceed, after contract execution. So that's the first step. So we had a little delay there over what a normal process would be. But you know, that went fairly smoothly. Frequency licensing. So at the time we wrote our proposal, we identified a set of UHF frequencies that we felt would work very well for you. Unfortunately, between the time that the proposal was submitted and we actually got the contract signed, somebody came in and took those frequencies. Now you may ask, why didn't we apply for them sooner? We can't. We can't apply for frequencies. We can't apply for frequencies until we get a signed contract. So again, something that was outside of our control and unfortunate. But we got new frequencies. We do have frequencies. But again, just a little time delay there as well. And last, site acquisition. I think the county made a very smart decision when they expressed a preference to own the sites. However, in the short term there have been some challenges with that because some landowners don't want to sell their sites. They don't want to get rid of their sites. So you know, that has been a pretty consistent challenge. And also, it's not just any site, right? We need to have a site that will work for the system and meet the system performance parameters. So those are the two things that we need to balance and thread the needle on. What's important, and certainly the major takeaway from this, is if we get down to step three, the site acquisition, and the owner's not willing or is unreasonable in trying to sell his site, then we've got to go find a new site, which takes us right back up to step one. And that's an iterative process until we get to 10 sites. MR. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. MR. Thank you. MR. Last slide. Again, we won't be long, but certainly leave plenty of time for questions. You know, one thing I'm proud of is the county came to us shortly after the contract was executed and told us they had a need for portable and mobile radios on their public safety system. As I understand it, the radios that they were using were end of life, couldn't find parts, couldn't find people to work on them. So EFJ stepped up the plate and has provided 200 mobiles and portables that are used on their existing system. I think primarily by fire, but I think police are also using some of those. We are going to provide to Frederick County a state of the art portable radio. It's our VP8000. It will be available. We actually brought one with us today to present at the meeting. And those will be going into production starting in December of 2022, well, well in front of when they're actually going to be needed for the project. So we're in good shape as it relates to being able to get those new portable radios for your operators. MR. We have a few more. We talked about sites earlier and how many we have actually progressed on. So we've executed notices to proceed at Poorhouse, Clearbrook, Brimstone, North Mountain, Cottontown, Middletown, and the Catholic Gap property. That's seven out of 10. So we're at 70 percent. We anticipate executing notices to proceed in the next couple of weeks for Frog Hollow, with Gainsborough, and Cross Junction by the end of September. So we're getting really close to getting those 10 sites identified, notices to proceed, and we can start doing all of our work. We are always optimizing our coverage based upon recent changes. There have been a couple changes at some sites. We moved them a couple hundred feet one way or the other. That requires us to rerun our coverage. So we're always optimizing that. I actually had a coverage meeting this morning, and we're still working on coverage and getting that optimized, threading that needle perfectly as well. We initiated our regulatory approval. Again, I didn't want to use any jargon, but NIPA, SHPO, what those are, are those are environmental certifications. So there are situations where there may be a protected animal or a protected plant. They come in, they do their analysis, and I've seen projects held up for up to six months to protect those. So I just thought it was important to let you guys know that is a risk going forward, and we won't know until we actually get through those certifications. Most importantly, we are on budget and on schedule. Thank you for your time. Thank you. We'll entertain any questions. Questions, anyone? Mr. Chairman? Mr. Chairman? No, sir. One question. Yes, sir. Has the tower height been decided on for each of the ten sites? Seven, you know, accomplished? That is part of the optimization that we're working on when I talk about coverage analysis, is getting those tower heights to the point that we actually need to get them to get to the desired, well, the contract that they can . So still some decision to make on that? Some decision to make. Okay. Yes. Supervisor Dunn. When we went through this process a number of years ago, one of the criteria was that all sites would be in Frederick County. When we were going through the analysis, there was one firm that was disqualified because they made the comment that they could not meet the 95% criteria, which included the forest. From what I understand, the tower you have here does that. Yes. And the other thing is that the site configuration changes. The site configuration that you presented a year ago, that's question number one. And question number two is that the other sites in Shenandoah County, I understand they've had to vote on something. So if you can walk through, do we own it, do we lease it, et cetera, that's going to be one. And one other, third question, on sale versus leasing, if you have an owner, a farmer for simplicity that says, I'm going to lease this site. And the other person says, I don't want to sell my land, but I might lease it to you for 20 years, 30 years, 40 years, in other words, the life of the tower. Would that help to solve the problem where you can put the tower where you want, he doesn't have to give up, but he gives up control for X number of years? I think that's a business decision that Missy and Jay are making as she goes through. So I'm sure that's an option that you would consider. Missy, I don't want to speak for you, but- For leasing? Yes. I have approached some people. I'm not sure if you're familiar with the leasing. I'm not sure if you're familiar with the leasing. I'm not sure if you're familiar with the leasing. I'm not sure if you're familiar with the leasing. Sorry. So far, everybody has been favorable to sell. There was one that was looking at leasing. However, after giving him a couple different options, he is looking at selling as well. And from my perspective, if you can lease and you achieve the same objective, I mean, that's- So when we did the cost analysis for lease versus own, a lease could cost us up to $10,000 per month for 40 years. Whereas we're buying for approximately $25,000 total. So let me rephrase it. If the lease is the same price as the sale price, then we're good. I don't know that we're going to get a lease for the same price. You're talking about like $100 a month, maybe. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. And your first part of that question was, and again, I don't have the full history- No, that's fine. It was the site location, which was in Shenandoah County. And when you made the presentation, not you personally, but when the presentation was made. All sites were in Frederick County. And we had a specific discussion on all sites within. We had a discussion on Siren, which was in West Virginia. It was discounted because of that. So- So we actually had Cottontown listed in our RFP as a potential site. It's been on the table since the beginning. Shenandoah actually approached us to allow us for free. There's no cost other than our maintenance cost to locate on that tower. But it has been on there since the beginning. So we've had a lot of discussion on that. I don't remember that. We did that site. Let's move on. Thank you, Board. We appreciate it. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I had a question. If I may. Or you may. My question was on the Shenandoah County site. I know that they voted on it because one of their Board members called me the night that they were going to vote and said, hey, we're going to vote to add you to the tower. I don't know that it was ever brought to us that, as Supervisor Dunn stated, that we would be able to do that. But I think that the board members have been very supportive of that. And I think that the board members have been very supportive of that. And I think that the board members have been very supportive of that. I think that the board members have been very supportive of that. And I think that they voted on the site. But I think that the board members have been very supportive of that. And I think that the board members have been very supportive of that. And I think that the board members have been very supportive of that. So thank you for your time tonight. And as one of their Board members called me the night that they were going to vote and said, hey, we're going to vote to add you to the tower, I don't know that it was ever brought to us that, as Supervisor Dunn stated, that we would be using a tower outside of Frederick County. And I do firmly recollect that we made the discussion that we wanted to own our properties for the very reason that was just stated, as far as the cost of lease. As long as this cost is free, do you—as far as other maintenance—do you anticipate large or long-term costs associated with co-locating with Sheridan County on that tower and the reason I'm asking that question is as our purchasing I guess managers at lack of a better term stated that you know the $25,000 range versus a long-term lease what that cost is what what ongoing costs are we looking at with co-locating on that tower and is there anything unforeseen that we don't maybe know about at the present time this is a standard practice across land mobile radio installation sharing of resources it's much cheaper if everybody builds their own towers their own you know it's going to be very expensive on the taxpayer so it's it's a standard operation I it can be a problem based upon my the input and the discussions I've had with Missy this has been a very willing landowner Shenandoah County they've been very on very open with us and I don't foresee any challenges I mean one of the challenges we talked about this morning was you know what happens if you know they decide they don't want to sell their land and they don't want to sell their land to us on any anymore we have it there's a two-year notice in there so they have to give us at least two years notice so that's always my biggest risk is what happens if the relationship gets fractured but we've got a two-year notice in there so that would give us plenty of time to identify an alternate site should that happen so my question goes back to you then you get the system in place we're five years down the road and they say you're out we have that two-year would we then we would then at that point have to purchase another piece of property erect a tower and remove our equipment and go down that road or how does that work what does that agreement look like because I haven't seen it I mean it's that depends on how the manager is going to put this together is going to look at work process how many people are admitted to one site how many views you have enough views is that going to come from the beginning I had there maybe three against plus that if the business be lost our business or your business end up Ziema Smith we strong that heated an open going down the road you win and get it back that confident of as became successful trying to ever sell the land is for you All right. Appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. Conservation Easement Authority. How would the board like to handle that one? Mr. Chairman, I would move for Mr. Lodge to be reappointed to the Conservation Easement Authority. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Lodge will be reappointed. E.D., the Economic Development Authority for your term of Richard Till. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to reappoint Mr. Till to the Economic Development Authority. Second. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Till will be appointed. Hanley Regional Library, we have a vacancy and potentially an extended full term. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we appoint Brenda Nelson to the four-year term that's expiring. And you can see her attached to a resume, if you will. Remainder of the term end occurrence? Yes, the remainder of the term. And an additional. Okay. I'm sorry. I understand. Second. Motion. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. She'll be appointed. We'll bring us to the lengthy Finance Committee. Yes. Supervisor Slaughter. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. The Finance Committee met on July 20th at 8 a.m. Item number one on the agenda was the Interim Parks and Recreation Director request a general fund supplemental appropriation from proffer funds in the amount of $20,000. The item was approved by the Parks and Recreation Commission. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarth? Aye. Second, and ya done. Okay. Do we have any signal contrari to keep this going on for as long as 20 minutes? So as Assembly Speaker said, you're taking trouble. So, Muhammad? Chairman, Ms. D tye sets theR to how manyية I think you were Parliament.gramme? Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McArthur. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. No. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number three. The Parks and Recreation Interim Director requests a fiscal year 22 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $600. This amount represents a donation for a memorial park bench that has been installed at Frederick Heights Park. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McArthur. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number four. The Clearbrook Volunteer Fire and Rescue Company requests a general fund supplemental. Supplemental appropriation from proffer funds in the amount of $44,448.93 for a generator. This amount falls under the fire and rescue capital item on the CIP and has been approved by the Public Safety Committee. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. And in a second, is there any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McArthur. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number five. The Clearbrook Volunteer Fire and Rescue Company requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $26,046.50. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent proffer funds from the building renovation project. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. And in a second, is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McArthur. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number six. The sheriff requests a fiscal year 22 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $29,760. This amount represents traffic control reimbursement and will be used for overtime. No local funds required. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Motion to approve. Second. Motion to approve. Second. Motion to approve. Second. Motion to approve. Second. Motion to approve. Second. Motion to approve. Second. Motion to approve. Second. Motion to approve. Second. Motion to approve. Second. Motion to approve. Second. Motion to approve. Second. Motion to approve. Second. Motion to approve. Second. Lindsay Vacas on a motion, and a second.��公 기 mascoDoνηgob deploying the spoding at the current bus stop. Any basic Eugene shows a motion to approve? There'sowania were present but not on the votingarg- There'sania were present but not on the votingarg- Strong Aye or Greenleaf? Me notification. coated. time no local funds are required the committee recommends approval and I would so move second second is there any discussion hearing nine supervisor Graber I supervisor done I supervise McCarthy supervisor well I supervisor slaughter I supervisor Ludwig I chair votes I and the motion carries item number eight the sheriff requested general funds supplemental appropriation in the amount of six hundred and twenty five dollars four hundred dollars from fiscal year 22 and two hundred and twenty five dollars from fiscal year 23 this amount represents donations toward the impound lot building no local funds required the committee recommends approval and I would so move and the second is there any discussion hearing nine supervisor Ludwig I supervisor slaughter I supervisor Wells I supervise McCarthy supervisors done I supervisor Graber I chair votes I and the motion carries item number nine the public works director requested general funds supplemental appropriation not to exceed seven hundred twenty six thousand seven hundred eighty nine dollars and seventy seven cents this amount represents a carry forward of unspent funds for the Gore convenience center project that is currently in process I this item has been approved by the Public Works Committee the committee recommends approval and I would so move second secondięa pending a question is there is there any discussion supervisor Graber I supervisor grasar-Bend Shields I owe Ms. Dunn from the Wirsung Washington supervisor Robert Winterberg yesisseshe's shaking handsgli tutorial case OMG Dunkerley the governor approval of the니 department of resource planning gegeben minimumи No local funds required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number 11, the Finance Audit Committee Charter adopted by the Board of Supervisors requires an annual review and reassessment. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Supervisor McCarthy. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. And then item number 12 is an item that was in discussion, and that will be taken up with the county administrator at our work session on September the 14th. So that's information only, and that would conclude my report, sir. Thank you very much. All right. That will bring us to a public hearing. Amendments to the 22-23 fiscal year budget. Who is doing that one? Thank you, sir. Thank you. All right. advocator. Thank you, sir. All right. Thank you. Warrantfor tämä. Thank you. All right. Gas? We won't, we won't, we won't. So I guess it depends on your judgment, Mr. Roosevelt. It used to be that you could call it theream. All right. But anyway, I'm so pleased to visit you, Mr. Vladimir, for being here. I want to give a very情 Fridays in the Shawn I see other journalists. This is a great card. Here's a workarrange for it. When I say what and I should have said that at least I've done something else has done. I'm here at Austin as well. I think all my customers. All right. that we've garnered about 80% of the required funding needed through non-local grants, leaving about a $2 million local shortfall. Instead of coming before you tonight requesting general fund subsidies, we are requesting concurrence for the airport authority to take on debt through the USDA Rural Development Program. The debt is offered at 3.25%, which is below market for today's economy, fixed over 40 years. With no prepayment penalty, we will aggressively pursue a strategy to try to pay down that debt as efficiently, yet as responsibly as possible. But I'd like to highlight a key feature of this new terminal building, as I've reported before, is leaseable space. And based on rent projections and our pro forma, the revenue generated by that new leaseable space will offset that anticipated debt, making this, at worst, a cost-neutral project for us, which is a truly remarkable feat, given the magnitude of this project for the airport authority, and preserves the progress that we've made in recent years on our operating budget, and further reducing the operating contribution from Frederick County. Finally, I want to note that this project is eligible for possible reimbursement under the program in the infrastructure bill, known as the Airport Terminal Program. We have four opportunities to compete for reimbursement for this project in subsequent years, which could possibly alleviate some of that debt, or possibly eliminate some of that debt, and possibly eliminate some of that debt. We have four opportunities to compete for reimbursement for this project in subsequent years, or possibly eliminate some of that debt, and possibly eliminate some of that debt, or possibly eliminate some of that debt, which would be, of course, a home run for us. We are excited to deliver this project for the citizens of Frederick County, for the bright future of aerospace and aviation in our community. And with that, I'll conclude my remarks. I'm happy to address any questions you have. Any questions? Those are done. Mr. Sabo, I appreciate what you're doing. I'll just ask you a couple questions for the record. You've been on this job for, I believe, three, four, five years. Four years. And so during that time frame, have you had other projects in which you have accelerated the debt? As prior to the report, two years ago, we paid off an outstanding bond. It was the only one at the time, through a negotiation of advance rent with an airport tenant of ours. So we eliminated five years of debt service, if you will, to an outstanding bond of approximately $190,000. It was about $4,500 of monthly debt service that we were able to eliminate. So I like to point to that as a track record of success in the industry. So I like to point to that as a track record of success when it comes to being aggressive with debt, but again, doing so responsibly. The question is, I understand that since you've been on this board, the finances of the airport have been significantly improved. I know there's a former chairman that's sitting here, so, staff person on finances said the same. So have the finances of the airport improved significantly? They have, absolutely. And you can look at the operating cash in the bank through the county reports to see progress in that way. And all the while, we've also made significant strides on what we call the capital budget side to bring to bear a lot of state and federal revenue sources to complete some very significant projects. Next question is, and we've said this before, you know, I would expect you to stick on for the next 20 years and Mr. Fisher to stick around for another 20 years too. But if your board, have you internally in the airport done anything so that if you had a new board, just so we have excess money, you know, a 40-year bond note, so we're going to go buy some Ferraris or something like that, is there a way to make certain that the excess money is used to prepay this bond so that the county is not obligated to a 40-year note but something 20 years or less? I think there's a lot of strategies we could pursue whether it be by resolution or formal policy or some other mechanism similar to that to demonstrate through a cash reserve policy what to do with excess revenues to pay down that debt. Again, we want to make sure that we're not spending too much money. We want to make sure that we're not handicapping ourselves by paying too much, for example, in a given year that might result in a lean year the following. So I think we have to be very diligent about how we approach that, but we'd be very agreeable to sitting down and discussing strategies for that. Thank you. Another question? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. The amendment that is before the public today includes not just the debt but a supplemental appropriation of $11.5 million. Can you expand on that? For us, please. So that $11.5 million, that is the total project cost and you should have a backup that shows the budget. Then we have revenues against that and we have revenues to shore up about nine, just over nine million of that. So that outstanding component is the debt that we're seeking to bring us to that full 11.5 million. So that's a similar strategy that we pursue for our other capital projects at the airport where a lot of times state and federal grants offset all or most of these projects, but we've got to come before Frederick County. So we're talking about oscillating, Isaiah, relative to the state, is that what and how do as a return, how do we stand up to the breakdown? All of what has come up?็ Thank you, sir. It looks like the public does not understand that. Thank you very much. My name is Whit Wagner. I'm in the Stonewall District, and I'm speaking in favor of this supplemental funding. I have no direct connection at all to the airport. I have an indirect connection in that I'm an architect developer, and I've got corporate clients that come in all the time, and when they come in, they come in for two hours. And this new facility is going to be the keystone to Frederick County. They're coming in. It's a first impression. We need to have something like this. The current building, which was built back in the 80s, and this was a true statement, is called Brutalist Architecture. It's pretty doggone ugly. This new facility is gorgeous. It's one of the prettiest buildings I've seen in a long time come through Frederick County. I'm sure you all have seen the pictures of it in your packet, but it speaks of aviation. It has these supports, these struts, that hold up the roof. And it looks like the biplane struts, or a Cessna 172 strut. It just speaks of aviation. It's a timeless design, and it's something that Frederick County really needs as that cornerstone or keystone coming into this area. The old terminal, again, almost looks like a prison. Now, I've got a prison in Fort Collier that looks better than that current building. It just was a bad time in the 80s. I've got a prison in Fort Collier that looks better than that current building. It just was a bad time in the 80s. It's a bad time in the 80s for design. This new terminal is truly timeless. It's sort of like Shenandoah University, the Performing Arts Center. That's a timeless building. 20 years from now, everybody will appreciate it. As an architect developer, I volunteered my time to help simplify some of the things. I've been reviewing the schematics design development, and the building has been simplified to the point, we simplified the structure, simplified the mechanical, simplified the plumbing. At the beginning, the building was a little bit designed as a heavy-use public building, used 24-7, 365. Well, that's not really how a regional airport works. That's an international airport. So a lot of those finishes were taken down. Things like old plumbing fixtures were vandal-proof. For example. Well, we don't need vandal-proof in a regional airport. You need them. Is my time up? Yes. You can summarize. Okay. To quickly summarize, the only thing that, well, in conclusion, I just recommend that you all approve this. It's the gateway to Frederick County, and it certainly needs to be done. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Does anyone else wish to speak to this item? Seeing none. No one. We'll close the public hearing. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move that the Board of Supervisors adopt the resolution that was in our board packet was for $5 million, and Mr. Savo has brought forth that that can be reduced to $2.5 million. So I would move that we adopt the resolution at $2.5 million and amend the fiscal year 2022-2023 budget to reflect, and airport capital fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $11,500,000, representing construction and related costs for the airport terminal project. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Chairman. Go ahead. I'll support this, but I want to know that I'm not keen on 40-year notes. I mean, I think that's just not fiscally prudent, and the 40-year time frame will have an interest charge of about $1.8 million, according to the information that Mr. Savo gave me. I do appreciate what Mr. Savo has done, and I do appreciate what the former chair, Mr. Fisher, has done. If those two gentlemen would just promise to be around for the next 20 years or so, I have the utmost confidence that we're going to have this done. But I'm just going to say for the record, I'm not keen on 40-year notes. And if the two gentlemen can go and work something out so you can accelerate that and put something in place so that your board, a future board, would also continue to do that and not buy something irrelevant, I'd appreciate it. But I'll support it. But because you're there is one of the reasons. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Other comments, anyone? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Well done, gentlemen. Thank you very much. All right. Rezoning 0422, 84-11. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is a proposal to rezone approximately 2.21 acres in the B3 Industrial Transition District to our M1 Light Industrial District with proffers and to also rezone another 8.69 acres of a separate parcel from B3 to M1 with proffers for a total of 10.9 acres. Staff will note this project is in the Stonewall District, and this rezoning application would modify land uses approved with rezoning application. The property is currently under the M1 Light Industrial District's application 0205. The intended use of the property is a manufacturing facility. The owner of the property is 84 Lumber, and they're looking to expand their existing lumber trust plant onto this property. Directing your attention to the screen, the subject property is located at the northwest intersection of Martinsburg Pike and Yardmaster Court. Within this development, the primary zoning is B3, which is shown in the red. There are two existing users. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The first is James River Equipment, which you all are familiar with. And then, again, this parcel here, 84 Lumber. This is their existing site. They did rezone that parcel from B3 to M1 a number of years ago, and they're seeking the same on those front parcels. This is our future land use map. The Northeast Land Use Plan identifies this parcel as a future business site. That reflects the current B3 zoning on the property. And this is our, this is the 3-year business, but we're not, this is a really good reference because we're not looking at this now. Again, the project is within the limits of the sewer and water service area and within the Northeast land use plan. Although the site is planned for business, the proposed zoning M1 may be inconsistent with our plan. However, given that the adjoining use is owned by common ownership and they're looking to expand that operation, it may otherwise be appropriate to consider this rezoning. Again, that site would have access from Yardmaster Court as required in the previous rezoning. They're not proposing any access from U.S. Route 11 at this time, and they did include a traffic study which demonstrated that there are no potential traffic impacts at the existing network from their expansion. I want to call your attention, since your staff report was issued at the request of the district supervisor, the applicant has made two changes as of today to their proffer package. The first is in regards to proffer D as it pertained to the buffer yard, and I'll draw your attention to this on the screen. This is the north buffer. That would... create a screen between the adjoining R.A. residential property and the proposed M1 industrial zoning, and they have changed... they have modified their proffer statement to specify that they would provide a berm. This is consistent with the previous rezoning, and ensuring that that berm, which was a topic of discussion on that previous rezoning, continues on to this request. And second, they have updated the fire and rescue contribution to what is common in our rezonings, which is 10 cents per building square foot, and that is reflected in proffer E. The revised proffers have been reviewed by the county attorney in a form that is acceptable to the county. Just wanted to make you aware of those changes. So the Planning Commission held a public hearing on July 13th and recommended approval of the application. This rezoning is presented to you all this evening as a public hearing item, and following a public hearing, staff is seeking an action by the board on this proposed rezoning application. We do have our local representatives of 84 Lumber here, along with their representative from Bowman Engineering. Staff would note that in addition to the rezoning, they are processing a concurrent site plan application, so... subject to the approval of the rezoning, the site plan will also be approved at a date to be determined. So, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Are there any questions? Mr. Klein? Thank you. Do applicants have anything they'd like to add? Thank you, gentlemen. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No, sir. Is there anyone who would like to speak concerning this proposed rezoning application? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing. This is Stonewall. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. With the proposed changes that Mr. Klein referenced, I would make a motion for the rezoning of 04-22, which would include the berm and the additional funding for fire and rescue to Tencent. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion carries, and the rezoning is approved. That will bring us to an ordinance amendment, 12B. Mr. Klein, thank you, sir. Sir, this is a proposed ordinance amendment to Chapter 165, the zoning ordinance to allow backyard chickens and chicken coops as a by-right use in our RP residential performance, in our R4, our residential plan communities, and our R4 residential plan communities. And we are not in the position to approve this. This is a proposed ordinance and our R5 are residential recreational plan community districts. Many of you will recall that you all actually held a public hearing on this exact ordinance amendment on January 13th, 2021, and at the time of that consideration, you did not recommend approval of the ordinance amendment. However, at your June 8th meeting there has been some citizen inquiries about potentially allowing this use and you will ask that we bring the item back to you as it was presented previously, and that is what we have done for you this evening. we have done for you this evening. Currently, as you all are aware, the keeping of backyard chickens is only allowed in the county's R.A. Rural Area Zoning District. The proposed amendment would allow single-family detached residences to have up to a maximum of six chickens by right. The keeping of chickens would continue to be prohibited as the ordinance is drafted in townhomes, duplexes, multifamily, garden apartments, and single detached lots less than the minimum acreage specified in your ordinance approval. In addition to the allowance for the use, we have identified a number of supplemental use regulations for backyard chickens to potentially mitigate their impact on adjoining properties. This includes prohibiting the keeping of roosters, turkeys, guinea fowls, and other, and peacocks, following building and setback requirements for accessory structures, specifically the location of the coops on the properties, prohibiting the use from being located in the front yard setback, designating the areas for chickens would be completely enclosed. There'd be no free-range chickens. Requirements for secure food storage, ensuring waste management, specifically the chicken waste and also dead animals, and requirements that anyone seeking to have chickens on their property complete a permit application with the county and pay a $25 fee. This would enable us to know who is out there operating and should we be contacted with a complaint, we'd have the appropriate remedy to say, yes, they either have a permit or they do not, and they're not in compliance with their permit. Staff would note that if there are private covenants in homeowner and community associations throughout the county that restrict the keeping of chickens, those will continue to apply irregardless of the change that we make. So if a homeowner association prohibits it, even if the county were to allow it as a by-right use, those private covenants would continue to remain in effect. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item on July 13th, and they had extensive discussion about what the appropriate minimum lot size was, and in their recommendation for approval, they asked that the board consider increasing that lot size from the .25 to .25, and they did, and they did, and they did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. They did. That was proposed in the ordinance to a minimum of one acre. They agreed that the one acre minimum got it to more of a size lot that you find in the rural areas and would ensure that there's sufficient buffering between the adjoining properties. The Planning Commission also directed staff to adjust the supplemental use regulations to accommodate one acre lots, and specifically staff recommends removing restrictions pertaining to visibility from adjoining roadways. If you have a one acre lot, you potentially may have, may have a significant road fringe and screening that may otherwise not be an appropriate supplemental use. So this item is presented to you all as a public hearing item this evening, and following a public hearing, staff is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on the proposed ordinance amendments. In addition to the text for the ordinance in your packet, you were provided a series of maps and a table, which includes some analysis about what the maximum lots are and how many lots potentially could have chickens. I'm happy to go through that if you'd like, but I'll stop my remarks at this point. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like Mr. Tyler, if you'd be so kind, is to show the map for the lot size of the most restrictive, which would be 0.34 of an acre, to show how much land mass that would encompass in the county if that were enacted. So this is for 0.34 acres. When you take into account all of the occupied and vacant lots zoned RP, R4, and R5 at 15,000 square feet or greater, or 0.34 acres, that's about 8,000 eligible lots throughout the county. They are in all of the Board of Supervisors district, and they're pretty much well distributed throughout the county. As you increase that lot size, as you go to 0.4 acres, 0.5 acres, and up to one acre, you reduce the number of lots that are eligible, obviously. You go from about 8,000 lots at 0.34 acres that are eligible to, if you were to change the ordinance and make it at one acre, you'd have 1,300 lots total. So significant reduction in the number of lots that would be eligible. When you do go to that highest lot acreage, you're pretty much left with R5 lots in the Back Creek and Gainesboro districts. Primarily in the more suburbanized areas of the county, you just don't have that lot size as a common number. If I may ask as a continuation of that question, what does 0.5, if we go to a 0.4 or 0.5, how many lots are included in that? You said what it looks like in an acre, what it looks like in 0.34. 0.4. 0.4. 0.4. You have about 3,500 eligible lots. So you're going from, again, about 8,000 eligible lots to 3,500, cutting it more than 50%. At this size, the lots are primarily in the, again, continue to be primarily in the Back Creek and Gainesboro district. And then you have your R5 lots, again, Shawnee Land, Mountain Falls. Those continue to be eligible at a half acre. Thank you. Questions, anyone? Supervisor Dunn? This might be to you or to Mr. Williams. If there were problems, you cannot sunset the law, is that correct? The typical practice is that zoning ordinances don't have sunset clauses. Okay, so therefore, if there were a problem, you couldn't sunset. And then the second thing is, in R4 or R5 area, can that be rezoned to RA if there were a consensus among those landowners or not? Would it be downzoned to RA? Most of the R4 and R5 lots are already within planned community districts. It would be very hard to pick one lot out and say, I'm going to downzone to RA. Getting to your question about the sunset clause, you all could direct us in a year's time or two years' time to bring the ordinance back for consideration. We can give you an update on kind of how many permits we had and any violations. The other option at your disposal would be to ensure that the permit had maybe like a one-year or two-year renewal on it. That's certainly something we could do. But that would still? Grandfather existing situations, correct? Well, right now, chickens are not allowed in the RP, R4, R5 districts. So anyone that has chickens in those districts and we receive a valid complaint, receive a zoning violation or has to remove them from their property. If this went through, it would grandfather them? Well, if the permit expired, that means that every year, every two years, the applicant who owns chickens would need to come back and reapply for that permit. Thank you. Any questions of Mr. Klein? I have a couple. What are the rears? Rear setbacks in the R4, R5? For accessory structures in those districts, you have a five-foot setback. A minimum. Five feet from the property. Yes, sir. That would be correct. Got it. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Thank you. So public hearing. We had a number of e-comments, which we've all seen. And I think we had folks sign up. We do. Laurie Logue. Thank you, ma'am. Hi. I'm Laurie Logue. I'm in Shawnee District. Mr. Ludwig advised me today. I'm no longer in Opecan. Thank you for allowing me to speak again. I spoke against passing this ordinance at the Board of Supervisors in 2021 and letters sent to Planning 2017 and 2020. 20 I will not go over the many reasons why I'm against this change and those questions raised again but would like to add I have one and a half acres of adjoining property and my backyard has been visible from both public and private way roadway access for years with the recent tree damage from the storms more of my property and my neighbors is now visible so what I'm asking is if you approve this and then you know with visibility and everything and somebody loses you know a bunch of trees so now the neighbor sees the chicken coop how will that be handled I request that Frederick County Board of Supervisors not change the current zoning ordinance I feel passing the ordinance will result in the county spending more time monitoring and controlling with and will negative really impact adjacent residential property owners thank you Laura Pearson pardon me she was just calling the next speaker thank you welcome hello thank you for having me I was here again in 2021 I posed it and I still oppose it in light of these recent rainstorms which we just had within the last six hours if we'd allow these chicken coops to be built and this excrement from these chickens isn't controlled properly it's gonna wind up in somebody else's yard and it will be the adjacent property it's not good and it I don't I don't see it being good particularly in anything less or anything less than the one acre allowance that's all I have to say thank you thank you Sharon Balsey thank you Sharon Balsey you know I continuing back to that hearing section something rough about ifbreaking these chickens was this is this is you know the first OF this is yesterday we had with the few sh mission orders that perhaps we could build more farmers and Margit has seen a positive output for the across the resolve and I hear this support from all of the lenders would show me I don't know how far that extremely will go I'm not sure whether the Really what their goals are is to limit their excrement and it being thrown around if you allow the chickens to free-range Or allow them a mobile chicken coop that is able to be moved around the yard Then it is not contained in one area it is able to dissolve into the ground you do not have pile-up You do not have to worry about disposal I Would say that allowing Homeowners on smaller lot sizes should be encouraged and should be part of this You're going to find that the majority of people who want to keep chickens in their backyards Are going to have the smaller Lots and as long as it does not go against their homeowners association rules They should be allowed to have chickens to feed their families and to help feed their neighbors. I think that the minimum number of six while Is doable and can definitely sustain a family wanting to feed themselves Allowing a larger number of up to 10 or 12 is Something that should be considered when you lose a chicken Let's say you have a predator and it takes out half of your flock and you're left with three chickens By law you are not allowed to purchase individual chickens and numbers less than four So you then have homeowners who are in a situation of wanting to replace their flock and are dealing with two conflicting laws? I Think that having to have a permit in order to have an animal on your property is Not something that we should continue I think that having a permit for this again. It creates more judicial oversight It allows more government to coming into our personal lives and it is a Additional resources that are having to be used and paid for by the county that are unnecessary and the public visibility I I don't think that there should be an issue of that As this lady previously said I think that the public should be able to see the public and the public should be able to see the public And I think that that's the key to that I think that that's the key to that I think that that's the key to that You lose your trees you have a visibility issue and suddenly you're in the economic situation of having to put up a fence Or make other arrangements I I can understand and appreciate that there are difficulties with this But I don't agree with the public visibility. Thank you Greg Welcome sir, thank you Just raise that microphone up there, please. There you go. Thank you. Greg Mosey with Redbud district When my wife first brought this to my attention last week I thought at the beginning Yeah, that's a great idea back. You should sign this right away. There should be no discussion sign this thing But then when I was working in the garden on Sunday morning picking green beans Coincidentally a garden located on our land that people now want to spearhead meetings about paving over with 37 it realized it dawned on me that i've had a very good life for 48 years on the farm to my uncle bought in 1980 we've been privileged to grow and raise our own food period my wife and i have expanded that in the last 11 years to grow our own food for ourselves and be able to sell it to our community i know another board member here tonight that does something very similar and they don't confine chickens in a coop chickens don't need to be in a coop and you're limiting people to grow their own food on this piece of paper the best thing you should the only thing you should do is tear this piece of paper up and throw it away and simply write down that frederick county residents have the freedom to grow and raise their own food period that's what you all do not this paper and you shouldn't have to pay a fee to the crown to raise an animal for food i disagree with that totally i disagree with the coop situation there's nothing wrong with putting them in a mobile chicken coop and be able to have those chickens moved throughout a whole yard take advantage of the whole yard spread the manure out there wouldn't be a situation of having to deal with waste or removal of waste the chickens can be confined inside a fencing you can clip their wings and put them in a fencing and you can put them in a fencing and you can put them in a fencing you can put them inside a hard fencing and they won't fly out you can put them inside electric poultry netting and they won't fly out so that's what my personal opinion is on this bill on this amendment you should just tear it up rewrite a simpler one that we're allowed to grow our own food in frederick county thank you thank you sir that's the end of the list mr chairman is there anyone else yes sir ladies and gentlemen on the board good evening good to see you all again i'm Greg Gallagher from Bat Creek. The gentleman prior to me said a lot and I'll go right along with him. I think that having spoken to a few of you this evening and earlier today that if there are those of you I know right now it's the proposal is for districts that are areas that include the Opec and or Red Bud I believe the Bat Creek in the Gainesboro district and I don't know if there are members of your communities that are against this or you've seen that are very against this I don't know if there's a compromise that could be brought before the board that maybe only include certain districts maybe it's the the Gainesboro or the Bat Creek or both or whatever have you. I'm in favor of the proposal regardless of how the land may change regards the acreage. I've come before you before you've heard me. I want you to come before me if you've heard me. I want you to come before me if you've heard me. I won't reiterate, but I just ask you to consider maybe whatever small compromises amongst yourselves and the people that you speak for, that maybe you can work something out. So thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Is there anyone else? Seeing none. Yes? I'm sorry, ma'am. I'll get right back to you. Good evening, everyone. Do I need to say which? Name Magisterial District, please. Thank you. Samantha Armell. Blaine Dunn is my supervisor. Supervisor? Okay. I apologize. So I have been learning a lot recently about backyard chickens and homesteading, but I also come from a different aspect of this because I come from the residential real estate side. I appreciate both sides of the argument. I think that this would be a difficult decision for anybody to make because... I don't know. I'm not sure if you understand me or not. But I do think that it's a difficult decision. I have to say that our properties are important and home ownership is important and there's that pride and care and home ownership there. And then you also have to take into consideration the various zoning aspects of this. But I think you've done a really great job in meeting halfway. I see where these two have come from because I've started to learn more about the agricultural side. What I really have loved about learning. What? The agriculture. agricultural side of our community is the people and the more I've learned about how to take care of chickens or how to grow my own fruits and vegetables the more I've learned about our members and our community and what makes Frederick County is so special and I think that should be celebrated I think about some of the kids from FFA and 4-H and I think man are some of these kids limited are some of our high school students limited and what they can do and explore and sign up for because they don't have a family member with a farm or the acreage because of where they live can we potentially open doors for the next generation in opening up this opportunity for them what could it do for our community down the road how about the families that can't afford eggs right now because the price of food has gone up so much could this move forward for our community and our community? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. help because now these chicks can eat from the grass or they can you know eat the additional food waste in the home so there's just various aspects that I think really please and balance each other out and there's a way to do this and I just want to applaud all of you for considering it and taking it in and doing a really good job with hearing both sides of the argument I hope that you can come to a resolution and pass it and I thank you thank you yes ma'am I'm sorry I didn't see you there earlier thank you thank you board members I'm new to Frederick County we have name in magisterial district please yes my name is Doritha McDonald and I live in this election election district 10 I have not voted yet but I'm going to but I'm here I was here at the meeting last month and I spoke regarding this chicken issue I currently don't have any chickens at this particular time but I recently discovered why I was here last month that although I'm on 5.9 six acres but because of the lack of food and the lack of housing I have to say I'm not I'm not going to vote for the district 10 because I'm not going to vote for the district 10 because I'm not going to vote for the district 10 because I'm zoned in r5 not allowed to have chickens or any livestock and I am approximately less than a half a mile from RA I passed by cows and cows lambs everything horses just getting to my home and so although I would possibly agree with some of the speakers that's that's data because I was going everyday out and about once a year and not staying even shorter than 14 540 etc in the favorite areas all over Indianapolis I'm I think I'm no longer managed to do what I had been people attributed to much of myτhe having food jumbled this is the place that I have seen people who are hangman can berolling I'm completely out of my mind just thinking in a fr麻x although I don't think ID & I'm missing as it states now, an acre or more, I think that would be good because in that way, everyone would have an opportunity for families that even if they were able, they would be able to feed their families. And for others that have less than the acre, the required amount that's presented right now, they could very well give to other families. That's the other part, too. That if you have something that someone else doesn't have, you can always share the wealth. But that's mainly what I wanted to say. So for me and where I live, and in my subdivision, it does not prevent. It does not prevent me having chickens. It's preventing because of the county ordinance not allowing chickens for R5. Okay, that's it. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Good evening. Theo Theologist, Stonewall District. I don't want to take any position on whether chickens should be allowed or not. I just wanted to share a. I just wanted to share a point of reference. I think it's a really important data point for you to consider as you make your decision. When it comes to planned unit developments and homeowner associations, the associations do not have the resources to be enforcing such a violation, so to speak. So obviously, if the ordinance passes with a minimum of one acre, that's not necessarily a big deal with communities such as Snowden Bridge or Lake Frederick. But if the lake is not a big deal, then it's not a big deal. So I think that's a good point. Thank you. The last thing I wanted to say was, you know, I think that if lots size were any smaller, there will be chaos and a lot of infighting with the residents in those communities. That's all I wanted to share. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else who wants to comment concerning this application? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing portion. How would the Board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to make a few comments, and I brought a chart also that I think illuminates the situation a bit. I raised chickens growing up, have an interest in this, and I tried to engage, as at least one speaker has said, everyone who sent us emails to get their ideas. Unfortunately, a few speakers raised objections, which I hadn't gotten a chance to hear before, so I haven't been able to look into it. In general principle, I support expanding citizen property rights, and I would note that any existing HOA restrictions, as has been said before, would remain in force. On the maps that were shown before, even though those light blue illuminated areas were fairly small, they'd be even smaller if we knew what the HOA restrictions were. A lot of those properties would be eliminated from possibly having chickens. I spoke to a resident. I spoke to a resident that moved to Frederick County and chose a property here that doesn't have an HOA for the specific reason that she wanted to raise chickens. It was a shock to her after she had moved in that the county restriction, because she hadn't heard of any county doing that before, and now she's in the situation where she can't, even though she owns a fair-sized property. Another county resident, Ms. McDonald, who just spoke tonight, I spoke to her after the planning commission. She said, She moved here from Warren County, which also doesn't restrict chickens, at least a small number, and was also surprised when she couldn't have them. That spurred me to look at ordinances by county. I've only got Warren and Shenandoah right here. If we pass the ordinance as proposed, and I've mapped it on this chart at the .34 acres that was considered a year and a half ago, so the most permissive. We're going to have to look at the most restrictive version that we have before us. We would still be, by far, at least with regard to the two counties I'm able to look at, the most restrictive county still. Below .34 acres, we would allow no chickens, whereas you can see Warren and Shenandoah allow six and 12. They both graduate the number of chickens you're allowed to have as your acreage gets larger. You'll see our proposal, the original one, is just six chickens alone. At any acre size in these particular developments. Having raised chickens, six is not a scary number. I'm sure anything can be managed badly, including six dogs could be a problem if someone has them, but six chickens is not a particularly big deal. Some of the people who spoke today, I really wish I had heard some of their objections because I've engaged people who were against respectfully and really learned from some of their objections. Someone said, that they'd be restricted to coops. I agree that if they had to live their life inside a coop alone, that's not very humane, but I don't believe our ordinance does that. It allows what we call them runs. I don't know if the term now is in the ordinance by that term, but so chickens can be let out of the coop in fine weather and run across the yard. When we raised them, we had flexible runs so that you could drag the run to different parts of your yard. That answered some of the other concerns. I think the ordinance has a lot of room for change. We've had comments about chicken poop building up and you could spread it around the yard. Chickens, if they're concentrated too small in an area, they'll also destroy all the grass because they eat bugs and you'll end up with dirt there. I think our ordinance allows the runs to be moved around. If that's true, that does resolve a number of these issues. Another thing we haven't considered in our ordinance other than ZC. We have a number of acres that are not in the area. The number of acres that are not in the area, the number of acres that are not in the area, the number of acres that are not in the area, the number of acres that are not in the area, as your acreage gets larger. We did, as proposed, Mr. Klein said that if we agreed to one acre or more, that we should reduce the sightline restriction because it's hard to own a number of acres and not have some visibility into where you build chicken coop. That seems counterintuitive. When you have more property, but the reason is in a smaller lot, your home will block view of a coop. But when you have a big property, there's always a way to see the coop unless it's heavily wooded. So one thing we haven't looked at is graduating the number and the requirements, setback, other aspects. So that could have been done. I'm not asking for this to be sent back and dragged out longer. I'm in favor of the motion. I think the ordinance has a lot of restrictions in it that will keep discomfort to neighbors to a minimum. It does expand property rights. And lastly, I did speak to the planning department, and they do not anticipate that having to issue permits for this would be an undue burden on them or cost to the county. Thank you. Anyone else? How would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman? Yes. I'd like to make a motion that we approve the ordinance amendment to Chapter 165, Article 2, to include a 0.34 acre with up to six chickens as presented. Second. Motion and a second. Discussion? Hearing none. I think it's absolutely ridiculous. With a five foot setback in the rear yards where they're required to be, anything under five acres is ridiculous. Further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes no. Motion fails. Mr. Chairman? Yes. Am I allowed to make a further motion? We've dealt with the issue. My intent was to motion that we consider approving this ordinance, but increase the minimum acreage to 0.5 acres. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have several constituents in my district that are at that size and are in favor of this ordinance. I would have accepted a motion to amend, but you didn't offer that. Yes, sir. I'm going to ask Rod to help us. Sure. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, what you said, the board acted. The board could entertain a motion to reconsider, but that would require that motion to reconsider be made by a member who was on the prevailing side. So one of the four who voted against it. Yes. Okay. You've heard Rod's position. Sir, anyone who voted no that it cares to change their mind? Sorry, sir. Thank you, sir. All right. Let's move on. Planning Commission business. Discussion? Ordinance amendment, short-term lodging. Mr. Klein. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. You all are quite familiar with this ordinance amendment at this point, but this is a proposed amendment to add short-term lodging to the definition section, provide additional regulations for short-term lodging, and to add the use as a permitted use in the RARP, residential performance, and MH1 mobile home communities and districts. Again, you all have discussed this item on the 27th of April and the 25th of May. And at those discussions, you've asked staff to evaluate a number of different items. And staff has looked at that. Following the May 25th meeting, we did look at other conditional uses and other uses in the RA district, or in the zoning ordinance, rather, not just for the RA district, cottage occupations, kennels, you know, the like. And what we found is that we don't regulate those uses from a state of access. The only use that we could find that we do require some provisions as it pertains to access. And that's the only use that's really comparable when you're talking about impact to private driveways, private roadways, and the like. As you all are aware, the zoning ordinance presently doesn't have a good definition for short-term lodging. That's your Airbnbs, vacation rental by owners. We do have other uses. We have rooming houses and boarding houses. And we have bed and breakfast. They are allowed as conditional uses in certain districts. But in the definitions of those uses, it takes a little bit longer to get to the definition of a short-term location. So, we're looking at that. And I think that's something that's really important to consider as we look at the next steps. And I think that's something that we're looking at as we look at the next steps. Thank you. Typically, it implies some kind of meal, which isn't always an element of a short-term rental. And as I said, it's created a prohibition of us regulating short-term rentals under those uses. So, what we are proposing for short-term lodging is a definition that specifies that its occupancy of all are part of a dwelling for a period of less than 30 days. Typically, these are kind of weekend stays or several nights, but not, you know, longer duration than 30 days. Following your discussion on the 25th, again, staff did some further analysis, looked at other ordinance amendments or rather other ordinances for comparable localities. And what we are proposing to you is two scenarios for your consideration this evening asking that you would consider moving one of them forward for a public hearing. Scenario A is the most simple, kind of follows what you all saw on April 27th, and that is that short-term lodging would be allowed by right and single-family detached residences in the RA, RP, and MH1 zoning district. It does include the supplementals. It does not include any kind of provision for private driveways. Scenario B is a little more complex. Again, we're proposing that short-term lodging be allowed in single-family detached residences in the RP and MH1 district be allowed by right. And in the RA district, it would be allowed by right if it's on, if the property has access to a state road directly or a CUP would be required if they were using some kind of private road, private driveway, or the like. As you all are aware, conditional use permits require an additional fee. They also require a public hearing before the Planning Commission in action by the Board of Supervisors, so there is the opportunity for adjoining properties to have an opportunity to comment. So again, this item is presented for information discussion. I do have the rest of the slides you all have seen about the supplementals. I'm happy to present those or go through any of the specifics that you all may have. But again, staff is seeking action by this body this evening to send the item forward for public hearing. And in your consideration, if you could please specify if you would like to see scenario A or scenario B advertised for public hearing so we can move forward with that process. And I'm, of course, happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Questions or Supervisor McCarthy? Mr. Chairman, Mr. Klein, so you had mentioned that the only type of use that you could find that would be regulated with any consideration given to access would be event centers. But even in event centers, we're not regulating, we're not requiring them to get permission from adjoining land owners to use their own road. We're looking more at traffic. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. But in terms of the road, whether you're going to use this road to deliver that as a road to address road patterns, access to the road, would that be accurate? We do require them to provide some sort of analysis of that matter. But the ordinance does specify that they demonstrate that they have the ability to use the road for that manner. Usually, they're saying, hey, I have an agricultural use. It's my property. I've always used it, those type of things. But there's no requirement that you get permission, written permission from anyone else? That is correct. And then, in the event that you were to move forward with B, if we were to vote on that scenario, how would we confirm that the people who own the adjoining Jason Lots have actually given their written permission. In the ordinance, the way that scenario B was drafted, we actually didn't specify written permission. We actually specified that they just would have the CUP requirement. Again, they would notify those adjoining landowners that are adjoining the use of the private driveway. We didn't have a stipulation that they get permission. Again, we just go through the public hearing process. But for those of us who are sitting here, so say we have a CUP and someone comes forward and says they shouldn't have the right to use the road in this way. Isn't that asking us to determine whether or not they have their neighbor's permission, blessing, so to speak, to use that property? I'll look at Mr. Williams. He is nodding. And then my concern there is there's no way for us sitting here behind this desk to then determine whether the person who's saying I have a problem with this even is the landowner. Unless I log into the county land records and confirm that that's the title owner of the property and the deed, that all the title owners are here, that anyone else who has an interest in that property. For instance, a lender may have an interest in that. There's no way for us here to determine whether that person who's standing before us even has a right to make a claim on whether that should be used. So I guess the point I'm making is I'm very sympathetic to concerns. It seems to me that we're opening a huge can of worms, that there's already an avenue available if someone wants to avail themselves of that, which is to actually assert your rights in court, which is the way that it's always worked. It would be very novel under our current. Ordinances to have something like this, since there's not anything that we've ever done like this would be very novel to ask us to play a circuit court judge role here and try and determine who the owners of properties are, what their rights are, who, you know, who should have the right to use a property in such a way. So I just think that while I'm very sympathetic to especially the situation that these folks are dealing with here with their their road, we're B seems to be asking us to legislate for a particular situation and not for the entire county as a whole. And I think it's why. So we look at this from a holistic standpoint, say what's best for the citizens as a whole versus maybe one unfortunate situation that we've been hearing you all having to deal with. And I'm sympathetic to that. And I'm sorry you have to deal with that. But we have to look at legislating for the whole county from the standpoint of the county staff. Would there be any additional time that would have to go into the I'm assuming with the CUP, there's going to be the presentation that has to go in. So being prepared for that, we have already drafted the text for both scenarios, A's and B. They were included through. So it's as simple as you all told us to go forward. The text, the permit application, everything has been updated. We can as far as the workload on the county staff. So if someone needs to go through scenario B and they have a shared driveway, I'm assuming county staff will have to divert some of its time to preparing a CUP presentation for our meetings and that type of thing. I believe Mr. Pearson would agree that we have the capacity to handle additional conditional use permits. But to answer your specific question. Conditional. Use permits do take more of our staff time than processing by right applications. And I apologize. Mr. Clines on his third presentation tonight. And so just as one minor element of clarification, our additional regulations for specific uses for special event facilities that share private access easements with other property owners. They do have to show the easement allows a use of this type or written permission must be obtained by the sharing parties. Just so one minor clarification. But happy to answer any other questions you all might have. And as we're done following up with the comment, it needs written permission or agreement. If the adjacent owner says no, then what happens? So on the event center, if you have a shared driveway and one party says no, then what happens? I don't think we've been faced with it. But since the way the ordinance is written could be that they can. Show that they have right to use it, then they would have to submit a title report or something as part of their application. But Mr. Williams. Mr. Chairman. We do. The answer, I think, to the question is if the joining landowner says no, then the person can't proceed in that scenario. We do have some other limited instances in the zoning ordinance where there's provisions for, so to speak, sign offs. By adjoining landowners. I think we have that for some buffer and setback provisions that you can waive it if the adjoining landowner agrees. But those are very limited situations. And it's really just talking about who the adjoining landowner is not getting into his supervisor. McCarthy indicates the issue of determining what an easement looks like and what its terms are. And I'm going to. I'll say this. Most access easements just say they are for access. They don't say residential. They don't say commercial. Some of them are decades, if not centuries old. And they just simply say access. And I don't see ready means for the board to make that decision or staff to make that decision. I wouldn't want to be a circuit court judge making that decision. So I guess I'm Mr. Williams, Mr. I'm asking the question because you seem to have something that's similar. And if the answer to that event center is no, then we have an answer. In other words, it's not a circuit judge that's making the call. The ordinance is saying that. And that's why I'm asking. This is a parallel situation. I think that the way the special event center has been administered previously is that if all the property owners don't sign off on it, that our party to that easement, then the application is not complete and it can't proceed. Thank you. I think that's right. And again, in that case, it's that is it accessed by an easement? If so, then we need the sign offs and not this potential element of having the county determine what that easement means. That's a huge step between those two concepts. 30 seconds. And I'm not an attorney. I know you are, Mr. Williams. I know Mr. McCarthy is. So it's a learning curve for me. And I'm just listening to this argument. So thank you. An attorney's point. I think, you know, we're not just talking about, you know, a shared driveway situation in all situations. It can be a private road situation where you may have a road that is shared by hundreds of people and maybe not a shared driveway. And that could be a totally different situation. We're also, in this case, differentiating between an event center, which isn't by right anywhere in the county. You have to go through a CUP to get your event center. But yet this ordinance. It's a lot of people have a right to use their property. And if you're going to say, well, we're going to go through a CUP. We're going to go through a CUP. We're going to go through a CUP. We're going to go through a CUP. And then certain people, even if they have the legal right to use their property that way, we're going to say we're going to take that right away from you because someone's concerned about a right away issue, which they already have an avenue to address somewhere other than this body. And that's my concern is it's from a legal standpoint. It doesn't seem to. That's what we would call the smell test as far as making it work for us to be making those types of decisions at this body. And I think it puts an undue burden on. Our staff and our county attorney, when we come to try and make these determinations, I mean, we're just scratching the surface here with one particular situation. There's going to be 100 different iterations of that situation because properties are so unique. I just can't imagine what the fallout would be if we move forward with the. Other discussion, anyone? The only question I have is very confusing. I don't see where we're taking if we allow on a private driveway, private road, which I have one of those situations in my district. If we say the CUP is required for that doesn't mean you can't have it. It means that you are going to if you say by right, you just do it. Whether the gravel driveway, whatever. Otherwise, with the CUP, there are. You. The neighbors have an opportunity to say, I don't mind having this as long as this preparation is done before. This is this happens that there's a better access or a better egress or there's turnaround area or whatever. And I just don't see that as a problem. But here again, that's my opinion. Thank you. The albatross around your neck. Be a problem forever. And I think that's what we're going to have to do. And I think that's what we're going to have to do. All right. Are we ready to do anything with this other than supervisor slaughter? I guess I've got a question. And I honestly, until I really listen to all of this discussion this evening, I I'm not sure. Is there a possibility that there would only be access to the property if it's directly from a state road? Now, we seem to have added. On to the end of scenario B. That if it's a shared access, then you'd need a CUP. But. And I don't know how many properties this would, you know, have an impact on. So I guess the question is, if you have a short term rental. In an R.A. district. How many properties would be affected by. Just. Saying you you have to have an access from a state. And I don't know the answer to that. And then it just occurred to me sitting here. Is that something we should look at? So right now, the county has about 28. Active short term rental operations. In the time that we've been discussing this, I've fielded easily 10 to 12 additional people that are looking to do this. But they're holding off until this is approved. We haven't looked into the specifics of each of their addresses, but they're all over the county. It's. It's a really big area. And we're trying to get a one size fits all. We're trying to get a one size fits all. So it's going to be hard, as Mr. Carly was saying, trying to get a one size fits all. So we're doing by doing the CUP option. You would get those weird situations before the board and have an opportunity to discuss them and hear from the neighbors. But like I said, we don't have an exact number on where each of these properties are. They're potentially looking to do this. You know, the ones we currently have operating. We haven't really other than the Wayne's Lane group. We have not heard from any of the neighbors. We haven't heard from any of the other people. We don't know if they're complaining about them. People don't know that they're there. So we're just trying to get these people into compliance and straight with the commissioner revenue in the planning office. Mr. President, to your point. I don't know how many lots there would be, but I can tell you that there are, especially in my area and in Sean's area. You know, we have these private lanes that may go miles back into a mountain and you may have 50, 60, 100 homes along that lane. And. If you're going to. Allow someone. To live on the state road, but then say, well, someone who lives back there has to get 100 people to sign off on this, even though they may already have the right to use the road for that purpose. To me, that just doesn't seem just that we're saying some people are lucky because they happen to be on the state road and others aren't because they happen to live on a road that has 60 other homes. Maybe they can't track down one of those owners. Maybe there's no one that opposes it, but they can't find those owners. The other concern would be there's a lot of reasons why people may not want to have one of these short term rentals by them. It may not just be the access. It could be. They don't want to have strangers. Next to them. But. I mean, we're picking one sort of subset here and saying, well, let's make this a burden on certain people because we have a situation like this. You know, packing. That's a concern, but they already have a way to address that. But we're going to make that an issue now for everybody who happens to live on a private road. And I think that's the real concern is, you know, I understand that there's an issue that needs to be addressed. I don't know that that issue has been addressed. To the traditional way it would be. And we're trying to legislate for that particular purpose. And we may have. Until. No. Circumstances that will come from that that just don't seem just that some people because they live in a particular place, they get to have one even if their neighbors don't want them to have one. Question. Only you've seen referring to they already have a way to address this. What is that? I are a lawyer and go to court and litigate whether or not your neighbor has the right to use the road for that purpose. Just like any other property. Right. We don't. We don't write ordinances. He may be right. I just. I know that sounds awful. but that's the way our system has always worked because once just once you open that door what what's the next right that now we're gonna have to write an ordinance for and it's a never-ending cycle it just it never stopped yes sir thank you mr. chairman I can see both sides of the issue I'm not ready to take a vote on this tonight I'd like to chew on it a little more I have a few questions of staff after I do a little more research I would like to see us table this if it not be one meeting two meetings to the end of September but I'll leave that up to this board whoever would desire desires to make a motion but I just if I have if I get forced to vote tonight I'd vote no for both options because I really would like to know a little bit more information so that's just where I stand I just wanted to push that out there thank you right if that's emotional second for end of September not the beginning of September if we just could quickly inform the board that the taxation changes that happened with the committee was not in the committee's favor and that we would like to see that be taken into account as well and that we would like to see that be taken into into account as well and that we would like to see that be taken into looks like we can't even dunno a by the or budget today if there is no pushed tariff on that part Why is there is there ever enough of course of 44 you wanted a did not get to add while operators now you need the Allائù somehaul Mr. Attorney, can this go to public hearing with the two options or do we have to pick one and take it to public hearing? I think you could advertise both. That would, I think, be the best solution to move it forward, but keep the options open at this point. That would be my recommendation. Do you need a motion to that effect? Yes, because this is to refer to the Planning Commission for public hearing. I would move that we move forward with advertising both scenarios for public hearing. Second. Second. Any discussion? Question to staff. So right now, short-term rentals, are they allowed or are they not allowed? By conditional use. So right now, so you have 28 people right now, give or take. So unless they have a conditional use, they cannot operate, theoretically. You mean if they were to receive a conditional use permit now? No, if they're operating, they operated yesterday. They're not allowed to operate the day before, et cetera. So what's the concern on the tax issue that you just raised? There was changes from a state legislation perspective that actually required Airbnb and some of the other venues that provide this service to start remitting tax, taxation to the Commissioner of Revenue, which in turn put them into a situation where they had a list of people who were paying taxes but weren't right with the county from a licensed perspective. So we couldn't issue business. So we couldn't issue business. So we couldn't issue business. And the only outcome we could have done otherwise would be to process 28 conditional use permits. And so we came before you on a work session context and said, I think nobody wants to do that. Let's try to process an ordinance amendment. And then we've kind of got stuck in the discussion side of it. And that's why we're hoping to just move forward to public hearing. And if the ordinance amendment fails, that'll be the route that we will have to go is to process the 28 conditional use permits. One other question. Ms. McCarthy just made a resolution. That resolution could be amended or substituted as well in the legislative process, correct? I made a motion. I made a motion to forward it to public hearing. Okay. But at the public hearing stage, the ordinance amendment can continue to be amended as the board sees fit with the Planning Commission's recommendations. I made one comment that whatever comes up for consideration at the public hearing can be rejected. Absolutely. And then you're right back where you say you are tonight. And you don't have a solution. We're not offering a solution here. Yeah. It doesn't have one. We wish we had one. We've debated it at length. And it was great to hear you all bring up some of the exact same concerns. But digging into the easement language in a level of detail that only Mr. Williams is capable of doing did not seem like something we should suggest. And so our scenarios are the best options that we could come up with. But I think public comment will help substantially. And the decision-making process. I think the public hearing will provide that to some extent. Mr. Klein has a list of existing operators. We're going to notify them via e-mail that the meetings are going to occur. So you can hear from the business side as well. But if you all know anybody in close proximity to one that operates currently, please notify them so they can participate in the process as well. So under current law and ordinances, if I have a house and I want to rent it, what's the minimum time I can rent it? Is it 30 days, 60 days, six months, a year? The definition for short-term lodging is. No, I'm not. That's not a short-term. Well, it answers your question. This is the reason why I'm offering it. It is 30 days. And so anything in excess of that is not a short-term lodging operation and in turn would likely be handled as a traditional. Well, if I had a house and I wanted to rent it for a month, 31 days. Month-to-month leases are pretty common right now. Then that's fine. Yeah. Thank you. Anyone else? Are we ready? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Nay. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes no. This is a mistake. Motion carries. We will forward the public hearing both. What else do we have to come before us? Board liaison reports. Are there any? Hearing none. Citizen comments. Any issue you might like to bring to the attention of the board? Yes, ma'am. Leslie Shattroth from the Opec District. Right here in front of me is a copy of the deed. It's the deed for our land. Right here it says the improvement and maintenance of said driveway road shall be solely responsible of the owners of the lots which are provided with access to the driveway. That means that all of us residents have to pitch in and keep the upkeep up on it. These people have moved. We have had rainstorms. There was four little trees that fell down the other night. Where's the other trees? Where's the owner at? He's sitting over on Marlboro Road. We have to get out there and clean it up. And it's not fair to us. Meanwhile, I don't know if it makes any sense, but right here is a document stating who owns that driveway. Edna Holland. There is an easement agreement and all in there. And I mean, I don't exactly know what y'all would want us to bring the next time. I don't know. I don't know what you would want us to bring the next time as far as showing who owns that driveway. Edna Holland. And I hope y'all vote for that code, for the cup, and that the owner of the STL has to get written permission from the owner of the driveway before he can even proceed to go on. He's not the one out there filling up the potholes. Digging out the driveway. That's a big deal. He's not the one out there filling up the ditches, picking up the trees. We are. And trash. Wintertime's not even here. And there's been several times I've had to stand up on my porch just a couple weeks ago when those construction workers come in, and I had to holler and tell them to slow down. I've got grandkids on my land, and we've got seven acres. And what's it going to take for one of them little boys to get hit? For something out there to get hit? I don't know. I'm not a professional. When it comes to something out there bad to happen, these people have threatened us not to go on their land. That's fine. I'm clearing the driveway. I'm taking, brush, putting it over on their side. It's up to them to clean it up, not me. But, I mean, I just don't know what it's gonna take for the county to say, You know what? This one right here, when it comes to privately owned driveways and easements, something needs to be done. You know what, Senator, DeSantis? What? I thank you. Anyone else? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment portion. Board of Supervisors comments. Are there any? Yes, sir. If this issue, when this issue comes up, I am sensitive to their request that it be put in the beginning of the meeting, not the end of the meeting. So that would simply be after we have our consent agenda, if this comes up as an issue. We have policy about where things are heard. Okay. We will have to stick to that, but we will try to get it earlier as best we can. Thank you. Yes, sir. Anything else? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I serve as liaison to two boards, the Department of Social Services and the Planning Commission. Neither board had something new that I needed to bring to your attention during the board liaison reports. However, I did want to make one note. The Planning Commission held a working session last week, to which I didn't receive an invitation. I was aware they might work, but I didn't get that, so I had other commitments. I found out that day of that it was happening. It's not a complaint. I'm sure all things are good, but I'm looking into what they were working on, that commission, and that working session, and I'll submit a report if it's something I think needs to be brought to attention before our next Board of Supervisors meeting. Thank you. The Director is listening. Mm-hmm. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I would just remind our community members that over the next two weeks, our children are going to be going back to school. So as you go to work in the morning, you're heading home, please be aware that the school buses will be back on the roads, that the blinking lights will be going on in front of the school, so take your time. And to all those students who are heading back to school, I'm sorry summer's over, but this happens every year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sir. Anyone else? Vice Chairman? Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. We thank you all for your time and attention and participation. We'll stand adjourned. One vacation. Be well. thanks. Have a good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, young people. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chancellor. Thank you. The next blaze will begin in just a moment. Mr. Chairman, what actions are you taking to bring us back to theани in one minute? One moment? clients are you okay? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
