Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2023-01-18
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=173
========================================================================

Good evening. I call to order the January 18th, 2023, Frederick County Planning Commission. Can we take a moment of silence, please? Thank you. Planning Commissioners, reminder, when speaking, please make sure your mic's on. All right, the next thing up is the adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion to adopt? So moved. Second. All right, we've got a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. Okay, it is. It has been approved. Committee reports. CPC, DRC, Historic, I think we all were canceled for this one. Frederick Water, they're in good shape. The quarries are in good shape. They're doing well financially, and the rain for the month was 3.43, so they're doing well. Winchester Planning Liaison, Mr. Fiverr. Yes, sir. So we had quite a full agenda. We had a monopole request off of Millwood Avenue, just right over the railroad tracks. That passed as a favorable recommendation to the City Council. Also, we had a request for the development at the Zero Pack on North Cameron Street. They were seeking two conditional use permits. One was to have dwellings in 50 units or more, and the other was to have dwellings in 50 units or more. And then also have units facing North Cameron Street, and that passed as well. Then we had a right-of-way vacation, which passed in the Morningside, North Braddock Street area. And then we had a resolution initiating green space requirements for downtown Winchester, along with other zoning parts of Winchester as well, and that passed. Right-of-way vacation as well on Weems Lane, right between Weems Lane and Continental, and that passed as well. And then had two site plan approvals, one for that pretty big development right there at East Fairfax Lane, and that was just for some landscaping, and that passed as well. And then there was another, another one for the Tevis Drive, or Tevis Street Townhouse PUD revision. I had to recuse myself, but I think it was in regards to adding garages, and I believe that passed as well. Busy night, for sure. Thank you, sir. Is Mr. Ludwig online? Okay, I know he couldn't make it. If he was going to make it, it was going to be by being online. Okay, thank you. Next up is citizens' comments. This is the portion where anything, in which any items not before the Commission for Public Hearing or on the agenda can be discussed. For anyone that is here and want to make, speak, please come up, state your name, magisterial district, and please keep it to three minutes. So. Thank you. Chairman Jewell and members of the, the committee, the commission, excuse me. Thank you for your service. My name is Brenda Fristow, and I live in the Stonewall District. I ask those who are on the CPPC to send the citizens draft NELA plan, which does not include extractive mining, back to the planning commission for approval to be sent to the board of supervisors. Next, I'd like to address two comments that were made by members of this commission at the last meeting. First, that I am stirring up the Stonewall District residents. The statement is false. I want to make it crystal clear here tonight, the residents of the entire county are angry, saddened, and sickened by the destruction of our community by car moose. No stirring up is necessary. This leads to the second comment at that meeting, that the feeders, the community, and the community of Frederick County are angry, saddened, and sickened by the destruction of our community by car moose. The feedback against mining represents a small percentage of Frederick County residents. That statement is false. The residents in other sectors were not invited to give their input. Therefore, they cannot be counted as a basis for statistical analysis. Add to this the fact that your own planning director and staff advised against the expansion of extractive mining. This northern gateway, this northern gateway, this northern gateway, leading into Frederick County, can be saved if you will listen to your citizens. Here's the 2035 comprehensive plan as adopted. Life at the top. Let me read the purpose of the plan. The plan addresses the future of Frederick County for its citizens, not businesses, highlights its rich history. We're the oldest settlement in Frederick County, so food, talked about in around 200 years, many locals think, but we First JUNE 5,北 박 Democratic majority of the Бог'd capitalization for器 brief arc is the hope we once shared onald left glory songvelop al Here are some of the core values. A government concerned with long-range planning that protects our rural heritage. A government concerned with expanding commercial and industrial tax base. This doesn't happen with CARMA's expansion, no additional tax money. A government that looks to the future and implements plans to ensure that the quality of life for future generations is preserved. Adding 10 times the existing mining activity will essentially blast the Brewstown community off the map. CARMA has already stated that there will be no additional output, therefore no additional revenue. All the potential revenue from this special land will be lost. The comp plan goes on to say that we are to proactively attract desired business entities, limit light, noise, pollution, keep the natural landscape, minimize land disturbance, avoid sensitive areas. I ask you again to accept the citizens draft NELA plan so that life at the top continues. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ms. Frister. Is there anyone else that would like to come forward for citizens' comments? Hello, sir. Hi. State your name and your magisterial district, please. Jacob Harrison, Bat Creek District. So I'm hoping this is the right form for this today. My wife and I purchased some property in the Bat Creek District about three years ago. We live just off Rock Enon Springs Road, right off Bat Creek Road. There's actually a business down at the end of this dead-end road that we live on. It's the Cove. It's a business. It's a campground. And it also supports the Boy Scout camp. So both of those use that area. What we're trying to do is figure out how to get onto the list, when I looked up through VDOT, to get a road pay. And we're trying to figure out how to get it up and down the road. And we're trying to figure out how to get it up and down the road. And we're trying to figure out how to get it up and down the road. And we're trying to figure out how to get it up and down the road. A lot of people use recreational vehicles, so it's trailers. It's other things that are going up and down the road. And VDOT struggles a little bit with keeping up on it. We find ourselves constantly, probably every two months, putting in a request to get it repaired. So we were looking at the Rural Rustic Road Program, which, by the specs that they have on the website, meets all that criteria, and or a Pave in Place Program, to see if it's a potential for something we could put on the list to have VDOT. And or a Frederick County approve to get that done. When I call VDOT, they're very nice, but they say, hey, as soon as we get approval from it, we're happy to pave that road. Obviously, I know there's a lot more that goes into it. I just wanted to get the information in front of you all to see if this was the place to start to look at that. I'm looking to Mr. Bishop here, so. Well, technically, this isn't the place to start. Okay. That's fair. But I'm more than happy to speak. I can speak to you after the meeting, or you can contact me at the office if you don't feel like sitting around, and we'll get you on the path. Great. That sounds good. This is a start. That's a start. There you go. I'll take that as a win. There you go. Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else to come forward for the sentence comments portion? Okay. I see no one else. We're going to close that portion. And we will move on to Mr. Charon. We have several CUPs here, sir. All right. I should say, not CUPs, Agricultural and Forest District. Any of the Agricultural and Forest District. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of Planning Commission. What you have before you tonight, if you look at your agenda, you've got three new ag and forest districts that are going to be proposed tonight in one edition. The Agriculture Advisory. The Agriculture Advisory Committee met on December 16, 2022, and recommended approval of all the three new districts in the edition. And with that, Mr. Chairman, if I may, I will go through all three of the new districts in the edition. Obviously, this is a public hearing. Just for the sake of time, because there are the districts, we'll go through them. We'll come back. And if... Each one of them will open. If you want to open a public hearing before or against them, we'll keep moving. So with that, Mr. Chairman. That's for me. The first one on your agenda tonight for the public hearing is the Long Creek Forest Agricultural and Forest District. This request is to create a new Agricultural and Forest District of a total of 1,077.39 acres. It is located within the Back Creek Magisterial District. It is generally located one-half mile west of the intersection of Shady Elm and Springdale Road. This proposed district will consist of 14 parcels managed by one property owner. If I can turn your attention to the map on your left, obviously the properties outlined... The properties are outlined that will be part of this ag and forest district. As with all these ag and forest districts, Mr. Chairman, the... There are currently 10 of them in Frederick County, and that's not counting the ones we're adding tonight. And for the sake of preparedness, a lot of questions are asked. What's the advantage of being an ag and forest district? We get that question at the board. We get people calling and ask that. I think it's been asked at this body before. A couple of the advantages that you get up there on the screen is you've got land use taxation. It's preserving land for open space. It promotes ag, agribusiness, and long-term agriculture planning. And you get a density... And you get a density bonus with our TDR program, which is Transfer of Development Rights Program. There's one density rate equals two dwelling units. So that's the advantage why folks usually come into the district. And also, it does preserve the open space. With that, usually in front of this committee, as you're well aware, Mr. Chairman, Frederick County allows folks outside the regular rotation. Commonwealth of Virginia requires an ag and forest district to be reviewed by the board supervisors. We need a planning commission every five years. The ones tonight that you are voting on tonight, or actually have a recommendation to go forward to the board of supervisors, will come up for renewal in 2025. That's the rotation that we're in right now. And again, Frederick County does open it. If folks want to come into the ag and forest district, they can come out of the sequence, and then the ADAC will meet, evaluate it, and of course pass it up to the board of supervisors. Staff is seeking a recommendation on the Long Creek Farm Agriculture and Forestry District from the planning commission to the board of supervisors. The next one on your list, Mr. Chairman, is the North Frederick Ag and Forestry District. And that district is, again, creating a new district. It will be known as the North Frederick District. It has a total of 1961.86 acres. It's located in Gainesville, MA. It's a state-owned district. It's approximately 2.5 miles west of the intersection of 522 and Sleeper Creek Road and Bloomerie Pike Route 127. This is almost in West Virginia. Two of the properties are right on the West Virginia Frederick County line. This proposed district would consist of 15 total parcels. If you turn your map on the left again, Mr. Chairman, this is what the district looks like. It's kind of, because it's such a big district, it's inside line in blue, which is also in your agenda package. Again, the Ag and Forestry Committee didn't meet on this. Staff is looking for a recommendation from the planning commission to the board of supervisors on the creation of the new Ag and Forestry District that would be known as the North Frederick Agricultural and Forestry District. The third new one that's being added, or has been requested, I should say, is the Whitehall Agricultural and Forestry District. This request to create a new Ag and Forestry District, again, known as the Whitehall District of 972. 972.30 acres is located within the Gainesville-Magistrate District. It's generally located along White Road and Apple Pie Road. This district will contain seven parcels, and it will be managed by one property owner. Again, it's outlined at your map on the left. That's where this new district will be. And staff, again, Mr. Chairman, is looking for a recommendation. The plan is to create a new Ag and Forestry District. And finally, tonight, the last, not least, is an addition to one of our Ag and Forestry Districts. And again, during the rotation, what's a little different is we do, you've seen three new ones, but we do have folks that do want to add to their district or kind of grow and make it a lot bigger. So this is the South Timber District, which has already been approved. I was already on the books, I should say. It's been approved. This will add six additional parcels. It will add six parcels of 189.86 acres to the South Timber Ridge District. The district is located in Gainesboro Magisterial District, and it currently contains 17 parcels of 981.08 acres. There's an additional six parcels that are going to be added to this district that will bring the total acreage up to 1,170.94 acres. It is managed by one property owner. It's generally located in Hudsonville. Hudsonville, uh, Hollow Road to the north, and Muse Road and Gold Orchard Road to the east. And again, your map on the left shows you where this district, I think this district's kind of familiar. The last time we came around five years ago, this district was added, was created, and they have been added to the district in the last couple years. Again, Mr. Chairman, this is an addition. The Ag and Forestry Committee on all these districts recommended approval of them after reviewing them. The staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission, the Board of Supervisors, on this addition to the South Franklin Ag and Forestry District. Mr. Chairman, that concludes my presentation. Again, it is a public hearing, um, and, uh, it would be appropriate to vote on each one of these recommendations of these districts to go forward in the addition. Um, I'll have any, I'll answer any questions you may have on the, these Ag and Forestry Districts. Thank you. That's what we'll do. We will do a public opening for each individual one, but, do you have any questions for Mr. Chairman? Yeah, I do. Okay, I got one. I got two here. Yes, Mr. Thomas. Mr. Chairman, uh, these are fairly large parcels. We usually don't get this large of requests to go in. So we're looking at over 4,000 acres. How many TDRs could that produce? Quite a few. I don't, I don't have the number. I didn't even think about that, because it's one, one denser acre equals two dwelling. So, okay. But are we looking at one density unit as a five acre lot? That is correct. One of the five. So we're looking at, 800? You're looking at 1,600. 1,600 per TDR. Yeah. But, okay. How much is a TDR selling for now? Any idea? I could tell you it's market rate. Okay. The average is between two and six. So that's. Two and six. 16,000. Two and 6,000. $50,000. Okay. Yeah. Now, once these properties are in the agricultural and forestry district, they can do any agricultural business on them. So if they wanted to open a winery, if they wanted to have an orchard, anything like that. That's correct. Anything that fits into our agricultural district. That's correct. The only thing that they can't do, other than do a family subdivision, they can do a family subdivision, do immediate family. They can't do any subdivision within that five years. Any other by right or a zoning district, you point out Mr. Thomas, that they can do a winery, things of that nature, that brewery, distillery, they could do. Yes, sir. Could they do a farm stand? Yes, sir. So something like, I don't want to use John Marker as an example. That would be a great example. So they could put something like that on these. That's what Mr. Marker does right now. He is in the agricultural district. That is correct. That's what I thought. So I was, that's what I, okay. Okay. Thank you. I was just curious. Yeah. Mark, my question for you is when you were talking about the density and your slide up there said it was one dwelling unit, right? I'm sorry. Two dwelling unit rights for per TDR density, but on the brochure that's under the Frederick County website, it talks about that's, that's a representative of the type of soil that you got. Oh, well, yeah. And that's, that's a good point. Mr. Orndorff, that, yeah, yes. If you're looking at doing any development out in a rural areas, soils play a big, important part of that is you all know that district you're in. So yes, that would, so you, it's not a guarantee you'll get that. If you're going to subdivide this property, as Mr. Thomas is bringing out there, there are bigger parcels. You can do a heck of a lot out there, but if you don't get the drain fields and things of that nature, it just won't work. Well, I mean, I totally understand that if you're trying to develop, the land, but on the TDR, you're not trying to develop the land. So I'm curious as to why the soil comes into play on the TDR. When the TDR, we, as you recall, we adopted a T, well, you weren't here at the time. I read about it a little bit. Yeah. The TDR program staff goes out and evaluates each of the properties for TDRs. And part of the evaluation that we look at is not only the soil, as you point out, the environment, the environmental features. And then we assign them to get the certificate. For the TDR. So that's what staff looks like. Then we use the soil analysis as one of our, it's a pretty big component, but it is still a component. We also look at topography, water features, other environmental features. So just for all arguments sake, you've got 2000 acres. And I'm just throwing that, just the number, just as an example, staff will do, we'll go out and evaluate the property and evaluate the things I just mentioned and then sign the TDR and you get the certificate. Okay. So that means your, your recommendation, based on these, those assessments is all the property that we're talking about today are two, two dwelling unit rights per TDR. That's correct. Based on that assessment. Yes, sir. That's correct. Okay. All right. So if you was to go out to another piece of property that they'd have, in fact, a share or sandstone, it may come back at only one. It may. Okay. I got you. That makes sense. Thank you. Mr. Thomas. The property tax benefits that they get from putting it into the ag and forestry district. Now, if they develop a, a brewery or winery, a farm stand, do they still get those same benefits? That's something that commissioner revenue would have to answer that question. Mr. Thomas, because they do have, when you're, and I'm not going to get into taxation, because that's way beyond my pay grade, but we do have a land use part here in Frederick County for all areas. They will judge that when, when it's built and they will, they will tax or assess that, I should say. But planning, there's nothing bald in it at all. Okay. I just, I mean, we put it in there as an advantage. That's why I was just asking. Thank you. I'll look to the left. Anybody else? I'm going to look to the right. Oh, Mr. Kearns. Oh, real quick. Just wondering, would these designations have any impact at all on whether solar were allowed on the properties? I, as of today? No, no. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Appreciate the briefing. All right. We'll go back and we're going to start with, uh, I'm going to open a public hearing. Anyone who wants to come forward and speak for or against, uh, the five a, which is the new agriculture and forestry district, Long Creek farm, uh, uh, agri forest district. Yes, sir. I got Mr. Ludwig's contact information finally. So do you mind if I dial them in so you can join in? Sure. Yeah. I just didn't want to make it. No, to have them join the party. That's great. Well, that's going on. We've got a public hearing open. Do we have anybody step forward? See, you know what? I'm going to close the public hearing regarding Long Creek farm, agriculture and forest and discussion among the commissioners. I noticed that at all. We didn't notice that. Sorry. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Anybody to the right here? Any, any comments? My question. I actually thought it was a good, good way of approaching it because we had a lot of general questions. Well, my comment is, I think it's the agriculture people that know how to maintain the land. So I think they're good things. Yeah. So, okay. Do I have a motion from, do I have a motion from the back Creek district on this one? Uh, yes, Mr. Chairman, I would like to make a motion or move that we approve the Long Creek farm, agriculture on forestal district. All right. I got a sub motion in a second. I'll start to the right here. Mr. Triplett. Yes. It was all. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Marker. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Chairman votes. Yes. And this will move forward to the board of supervisors on February the 8th. So, um, next up five B new agriculture and forest district for North Frederick, agriculture and forest district. Um, any comments? Nah, this can be easy now. All right. Oh, I didn't wait. But officially I did not open the public. Sorry. Let me open it. Open a public hearing regarding the five B new year, culture and forestal district. Anyone to speak for or against this. Now I'll close the public hearing. Now we're the comments and we have done. So Mr. Chairman, I need to recuse myself on this vote. Oh, key dokey. Thank you. Mr. Brumbach. I need a motion from the Gainesboro district. Yes. I moved to approve this application. Second. I'm moving. I have a second. Okay. We're going to stop down on this end. Now, miss Brandon. Brandon. Yes. I'm Marker. Yes. Bolden. Yes. Thomas. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. This will again move forward February the eighth to the board of supervisors. Five C a new agriculture and forest district. Whitehall agriculture and forest district. I move. I open the public hearing for this. Come forward. State your name. Magistral district and three minutes. No one's running up. So I'm going to close the public. Und tag. But sweating on theseOkay. So the city of That was a lovely permettre sign. Yes. So by and duI can I move that the next pass Parliament on Alexander frank. And the key discussion. seals have signed issues. Yeah, yes. That's valid. Yes. I. Not that. I'm aware. I'm aware. it's unanimous and moves forward to february the 8th board supervisors okay 5d last one i open uh public hearing regarding the south 5d 5 south timber ridge agriculture and forestry district addition anyone come forward to speak for or against all right seeing no one we're going to close this any additional comments well you're three for three thank you very much deansboro district mr trim move move to approve all right they got approval oh somebody got a second in there all right mrs brandon brandon yes i'm back yes margaret yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes this will move forward to february the 8th and we appreciate all the folks that have put all this land in for agricultural districts yes yes yes Looks like there's a lot of work to be done next up mr clime how are you yes good evening mr chairman members of the planning commission this is a ordinance amendment proposal for our office in manufacturing park or om district and this item is for discussion this evening some of you may recall many of you probably are unaware of this but this district was created in 2008 it has not been amended since and only a small number of properties have ever rezoned into this district district. It was one project and those properties are known as the McCann Office Park and they in fact did not develop as OM. They actually went into conservation easement and there's still some OM left but there there's no intention to develop it as it was intended. So just a little background for you on this proposal. Again this is an amendment to that district to address many of the stated concerns regarding the implementation of the zoning district. Some of the comments were brought up in your work session when we were discussing the northeast land use plan in the fall and that was the earnest of staff moving forward with initiating a text amendment. In addition we're hoping to better implement the county's targeted industries those economic development priorities that our economic development authority chases and pursues and advocates for and more importantly probably the most important part of this we are trying to remove that link between the office of manufacturing park district and that mixed use industrial park district. So I think it's a good idea to have that link between the office of manufacturing park district and the industrial office land use designation that's contained in the comprehensive plan. That's something that you all have been well aware of through the NELAP process and through some of these other rezonings including the fruit hill project. So again we're trying to decouple the zoning for office of manufacturing from the land use mixed use industrial office. So the current zoning ordinance standard I won't read it per se but what's most important probably again is that first sentence which is to implement the mixed use industrial office land use classification comprehensive plan. That is the current intent of this district and that is one of the areas where we focus on removing that statement and again I gave you the history and stated that the OM district has not been well utilized to date. So the proposed text amendment when you look at the red line markup it's substantial. We are doing a substantial rewrite effectively writing a new section. Staff in two meetings with the development reviewing regulations committees proposing the following provisions. removing that link between the OM zoning and that mixed use industrial office land use designation. We decided on amending the district name from office of manufacturing to technology manufacturing park district. Staff and the committee agreed that better reflects the priorities of that district which is to implement those EDA targeted industries and there is a negative connotation with office in the current market because office has become such a lesser part of business development not only in our county but also in the rest of the state. So I think that's something that we need to be thinking about as we move forward. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, burr in in this whole process since i got here and everybody oh om you know when we get to and we look at the neel up so i i appreciate all the work that uh that staff and and all the committee members have done um and and from what my read through of it and from my knowledge again haven't been on the commission too long but from my interpretation of it it looks like they're good improvements um i appreciate the time that was it was done i think i would agree that uh with mr orndorff it's it's probably time to time to move it forward and and go ahead and get the change done uh the only question that i have uh on here i wish i would have seen a map of of what which zones it would have affected that that was it so there's only one prop there's only one set of properties that are zoned om it's in your district's actually in stonewall and mccann's mccann's lane um that's the mccann office park it was approved back in the early 2000s and it did not develop now there is as you all aware from the neel up there's a lot of mixed use industrial office painted on the map presently and some of that is subject to change based on the ongoing neela discussions but om would not necessarily have to be the district that if your properties land uses mixed use industrial offices you'd have to go into projects could assemble themselves in a way that they get that mixed use type feel without being an om but we want to make om again more attractive with the type of uses and those type of things that are included in this now we've expanded that useless to be more broad and include those targeted industries which we hear from our business our economic development authority is a priority for the county so tyler there's only one property zone that way but from the comprehensive plan it this is it's quite a big it's quite a big piece on the comprehensive plan yes sir that would be correct so for the future of freddie county and future development it's it's a big target for us it is presently a big target on the map yes sir thank you anybody else okay let me look to the left tyler i have a question i'm also on the drrc but i missed the last meeting i saw the electricity as a problem so hearing that there can be a waiver is great but the other thing i think may be a potential problem like we i'm glad we added a lot more uses because i think that'll make the district more usable but the food industry right now is running at 100 percent warehousing for their production because they're trying to store up supply so could there be a waiver if someone needed more storage not to turn it into a warehousing property but to allow them to store what they need to do their manufacturing i mean if that's a comment you'd like to send forward to the board for further consideration we certainly could address that like i said if they're on a rail they're served by rail which there's a lot of rail but that's 75 percent 75 percent of the total use of the property so you know they could still have their manufacturing component and then 75 percent of the balance of the property would be used for warehousing oh so it's not 75 percent of what they built from it's 75 percent of the whole property okay so i think that i think i know we had talked about this on the phone i think he gets at what your what your concern was and it's 50 percent of the use of the total land area of the property okay so it's still in most cases a substantial amount of warehousing yeah okay yes ma'am thank you but that is part of what's being permitted i mean i'm just reading this 203 canned frozen preserved fruits vegetables and soups they're all one of the items that is permitted yeah we did add all of those food and beverage manufacturing to make that list as extensive as we could capture pretty much all of the food and beverage industries that were not considered like a noxious use mr thomas i think what we've done here is really good i was around when we came up with this originally and it sounded like a really good idea when we developed it but it just didn't seem to work out and i think this is a great improvement i have one concern though in 165 60504 design requirements b1 i do not think we should let the word attractive be the word attractive materials in there this would be the only ordinance we have where we're starting to get into architectural aesthetics who's going to be the judge of attractive materials the neighbor the developer the zoning administrator the planning commission or the board i mean i i could imagine that most of the neighbors are not going to think anything is attractive and i'm sure there's 11 or there's 13 opinions here on the planning commission on what would be attractive materials there's probably the same number on the board of what would be attractive so i think we're going down a very slippery slope when we start getting into architectural aesthetics and this would be the first ordinance we have that we've put it in we've always resisted in the past and i thought we talked about it at the drc that we weren't going to get into aesthetic determinations so i really think that needs to come out yeah i like the term durable materials but i think core 10 steel is attractive probably a lot of other people don't think it's attractive i think unpainted concrete's attractive so you know who's going to be the judge and i don't want us to get into that i'll certainly agree with you i'll certainly agree with you one other concern you know with with fast tracking um you know with the the want to make sure we're doing everything we can the right way so with the fast track i have a little bit of concern about how we move you know sometimes it's better to ask for forgiveness ask at all in this case i just think it's something when it goes for the board of supervisors i i really like to hear what they have to say will. you know uh... with the master development plan uh... and also planning an entire for what it does for the board of supervisors sets the right website with that yetّ um and also the master development тип Please also make sure the electrical is important, is really important. I mean, you know, having your lines buried versus overhead changes the view shed a lot. If you go down in Loudoun County, you'll see that for sure, how that goes. So I think we have a consensus on this board. I can just comment on the fast-tracking. Yes. Anyone that wants to do OM, because there isn't any land presently zoned, they would still need to do a rezoning. Okay. So the Planning Commission will get to review and evaluate all of those kind of issues at that time. The design could be a component of that, the allowed and prohibited uses, the mix of the uses. That would all be part of a rezoning. So there is quite a bit of control that the Planning Commission and the board continue to maintain, because we don't have a lot of land. We have no land effectively zoned OM that's potential for development. Anything new is going to come to this body first. And then after that, they've got the site plan that would be administered, which is a box checking. So we're going to have to do a lot of that. I don't know if that's going to be part of the design of our ordinance, but I just wanted to clarify that point. But I do think that's an important component as well. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much on that. If no one else has anything, I think we're all in agreement. Move forward, Board of Supervisors, and we'll see what they have to say. And thank you. Mr. Klein, you've put a lot of time into this, and thank you for your effort. Thank you. The staff really has. Okay. Other. Mr. Bishop, what do you have for us? Yes, sir. Just a quick couple updates. For you, status of applications. You may recall the conditional use permit for Richard Bias had gone over to the Board of Supervisors for the old West Oak Market to be used for storage. That was denied by the Board of Supervisors. The tractor trailer truck parking, known as C-Clan, on Ebert Road was approved by the Board of Supervisors. Seven Benz Nursery. Which you just heard will be in front of the Board of Supervisors on January 25th. An update on the Fruit Hill rezoning, which I imagine you've all at least heard about through the grapevine. We are expecting that to be in front of the Planning Commission on March 1st. Based on most recent progress, VDOT is reviewing some updates to their traffic impact analysis right now. Finally, Carmuse. I know you saw in the newspaper that they've put in their preliminary zoning. They're going to be reviewing materials. They're gathering their agency comments. Once they have all that put together, they will actually be able to formally file, at which point you will see them show up on your schedule. Middletown LLC is continuing work with VDOT on their studies. Finally, Northeast Land Use Plan, which obviously we heard referenced a number of times this evening, is expected to be at the Comprehensive Planning Committee in February. At which point, depending on what takes place there. If it's ready, it will be making its way back to you all as well. Also, a reminder that we do have the DRRC Committee meeting next week as well. Tyler has told me he may even bring cookies. All right. Be prepared there. Then we have a joint meeting February 3rd? Yes, sir. Thank you for that. On February 3rd in the morning, starting at 8 o'clock, you have a joint meeting with the Board of Supervisors to discuss the campaign. They are looking at a very interesting project that we have in the next two weeks, which is called the Capital Improvement Plan. We are trying to work up a nice agenda for everybody. Where you will be able to interact with the various department heads that have made the request. And quiz them directly. All right, now it will be 8 o'clock sharp, so rise and shine everybody. For that as well. 8 a.m. 8 a.m. Yeah. We expect to be wrapped up by lunch time, but the goal is not to go all the way to lunch if it's done sooner. That's a Friday. It is a Friday. February 3rd. 3rd. Alrighty. In this room, right? Yes, sir. Right. Other than that, do I have a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. All right, we're adjourned.
