Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2022-10-19
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=165
========================================================================

Good evening. Good evening. I call to order the October 19, 2022 Frederick County Planning Commission. Can we take a moment of silence, please? Thank you. Planning Commissioners, just a reminder, please make sure you turn on your mic when you're going to speak. Thank you very much. Next up is the adoption of the agenda. I would like to make one change with the agenda. I would like to move item 8A, which is currently under informational discussion, regarding Frederick County Parks and Rec, up on the agenda and come before the public hearing section. Do I have a motion to approve? So moved. Second. All right. We've got a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. All right. The agenda is adopted. Thank you very much. All right. Next thing up is meeting minutes. I hope everybody had a good time reading the meeting minutes. Do I have a motion to approve them? Move to approve. Second. All right. I have a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. All right. Minutes are approved. Committee reports. Frederick Water, we had rainfall in September of 6.79, and the 12-month average has been 6.8 million gallons a day. Frederick Water. It's financially doing excellent. Their water's going great. The new water plant's coming along. They're just waiting on still some supply chain issues. Other than that, everything's going well for Frederick Water. So our historic resources, we don't have anyone that was here that attended. Winchester Planning Liaison. Mr. Tagnesi. Thank you. We had three public hearings yesterday. South Pleasant Valley Road, 25 townhouses will be built adjacent to South Pleasant Valley. We had a proper revision for Wawa gas station to be built next to CVS. That passed 5-2, but there's issues with the canopy being too large. And they have 16, they're proposing 16 stations. Third, we had an amendment to the Winchester Ordinance for Peacemakers. We're going to propose to add 5% of all future PUDs to be affordable housing. And in Old Business, we rezone 4.2 acres on National Avenue, where they'll be building 51 townhouses. That concludes my report. Thank you, sir. Good to see you tonight. Thank you. Board of Supervisors Liaison, Mr. Ludwig. Thank you, sir. So I forgot. My notes. I'll just wing it. You're good. You can wing it. Since my last report, I think two meetings ago, since the last one was a work session, I think the only important thing to note is that the Board of Supervisors passed the short-term leases as a buy right in all zones. And the only reason I bring that up now is to note that it should have one beneficial effect of reducing the workload and the number of CUPs we have to do. So I just wanted to make sure I had that in mind. And that's my report. Thank you. I'm going to turn it over to Senator Dutton. Thank you. Thank you for being here tonight, sir. OK. The next part that's up is citizen's comments. This is open for any items not before the commission for a public hearing or on the agenda. Please state your name and match your certificate. Do I see anybody? Nobody. I'm going to close the citizen's comments. All right. At this time, I would like to invite Governor Dutton to speak. We have a motion to vote on a motion to approve of the proposed amendment to the U.S. Department of Health and Welfare Act in 2020. invite Miss Stacey Herbaugh, the director of Frederick County Parks and Rec, up to speak. Awesome. Stacey, it was great to see you. Thank you for coming out. Hi. Hi, Mr. Chairman. I'm the assistant director of Parks and Recreation, and Stacey Herbaugh and I will be here this evening to provide perspective on parks and recreation in Frederick County and the interaction we have with the planning department. I know that you have been receiving presentations from various agencies, and tonight it's parks and recreation's time. Well, thank you for coming out. Thank you for having me. So in the planning context, it's helpful for all of us to be on the same page when it comes to the question of what is parks and recreation in Frederick County. This is a question that we, the Parks and Recreation Department, had to come to terms with when looking to construct the parks and recreation vision for the county. The reality we recognize is that Frederick County residents have a wide variety of sources to meet their individual needs. So Frederick County Parks and Recreation, of course, plays a role, and then there's many other. It's interesting that in the county, in terms of publicly accessible land, you know, we're talking over 11,000 acres. Of course. The vast majority of that being the National Forest. So having said that there's a wide variety of providers, it's relevant to point out that parks and recreation is the prominent provider for county residents. The graphics show results from our community survey, which I'll touch base on later in the presentation. But this expression of use is important in understanding the front runner or leadership role that the department has to play in parks and recreation services for the Frederick County residents. So I'm going to turn it over to the Director of the City of Frederick County, Dr. John H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. H. Our mission statement is we are committed to promoting and providing quality parks and recreation facilities programs. And these are opportunities for our community. Back in 1971, our department was formed from the Board of Supervisors to do just that, to provide leisure meet the leisure needs of the citizens of Frederick County. And at that time, our advisory panel, the parks and rec Commission was formed today. That is an eight member panel. Six of those represented by the Board of Supervisors. And I'd like to introduce Dr. each of the voting districts and then there's two at-large members that those folks serve for four-year terms and we work very closely with them they advise us on manners of policy procedures personnel of financial acquisition of lands and just the overall recreation the policy for for the county and the direction we want to go in back in 71 we were a six of I wasn't here but we were six members strong 44 acres and one part Clearbrook Park today we have 43 full-time staff we provide job opportunities for over 200 part-time and seasonal staff and a lot of those are you know 15 and 16 year olds entering the workforce for the very first time at our pools scorekeeping doing a variety of things like that so you know we're kind of we're kind of proud of that fact we also rely heavily on volunteers we utilize about 300 folks in the county and we're also a very active part of the county and we're a very active part of the county and we're also a very active part of the county and we're also a very active part of the county and we're also a very active part of the county and we're also a very active part of the county and we help us coach our youth sports teams they run swim meets for us they work on our trails pull weeds in our park help us at our many running events and things like that and they just help us to facilitate our mission of you know providing opportunities for Frederick County we are appropriated an annual budget of about six point two million dollars every year and we recover about fifty eight percent of that and that it crossed the board and they have been that week in their ability to collect costs for our Sheriff looming 총 so that a number of our legislators are going to have a little bit more look at we have a 24 ? crazy thing like we hadIKs around Twitter people prepare food every month we stretch this out so they're doing a daily�� a check-up but people that can be abled go out to the park to play games they've got three four will get snacks they've got music what do they have to give the Тогдар is a unique of them because they've been seek sponsorships with throughout the community to help offset cost grant monies and things like that we really try to keep our programs affordable for Frederick County citizens our department is divided into three divisions the administrative recreation and parks the administrative team provides the leadership for the department and we work closely with our Commission and other county agencies our recreation team provides over 200 programs and events throughout the year and a variety of programming from you know that one-year-old with an apparent me splash class to our senior citizens we have 80 and 90 year olds going on our trips going out to lunch things like that so we offer a wide variety of sports you know passive recreation we have a Scrabble Club things like that I mean we have a little bit of something for everybody and we really strive to do that our largest program is the basic rec program that is the before and after school care option for children that's housed at all 12 elementary schools in the county and in the summer we transition to a full-day care option for our working parents you know it's a we're open almost 12 hours a day in the summertime for folks and and those kids get a great you know choice of activities we take them to the pool twice a week we do field trips things like that so they're not just sitting around or keeping them active and engaged this year we've been able to open the middle restaurant and the restaurant area and we've been able to open the middle restaurant and the restaurant area and we've been able to open the middle rec after-school program at the YDC the Youth Development Center we're fortunate we've got two of the middle schools busing students over there we hopefully will have a third on board after the holiday break you know that's great for parents that are working in that middle school or who's just kind of at that vulnerable age they don't have to go home alone they've got some a good safe place to go to engage in some activities in addition to all our program offerings our rec division they run our outdoor pool we have pools at Clearbrook and Sherando we see about 15,000 folks a year and our year is very small Memorial Day to Labor Day so that's pretty good we have a lot of program activity water exercise lap swims swim teams swim lessons and we're proud to partner with the county school system to offer a free session of swim lessons for all second graders we believe in the value of teaching children how to swim and be safe in the water and around the water so so that's something we've been doing for several years now our largest event is the walking in a winter land light show held at Clearbrook Park will be opening in just a little over a month here we see about 30,000 people a year come through the park and enjoy the lights with their families this year after the hiatus from kovat we were able to bring back July 4th again great activity for the community it's free great concert fireworks activities for children and a huge number of people hope they have ahead of theauf they like to and b not only theśo nuts you can see the600 were always one of the number one contributions to seasonal year to Giraltown we also spent our timeього doing the county booster advancedable navigation Games some of the days a whole pollbee NCAA is where it was held and this is where each of the cars and five- hint to where we are there you know of will come out of at the取 anyone of that you know our park was packed it's just that just gives you a good feeling end of season swim with their pets. And this, just in another short time, we'll be having our Halloween happenings next weekend, followed by the Battlefield Half Marathon, and then we're getting ready for the Thanksgiving 5K, another annual event, and we usually get about 800 plus runners for that. Several years ago, as we were preparing our budget, we took a lot, we took a look at, you know, what's our initiative, and that is creating a healthier community for our citizens. So we've put some things in place. We offer free lap swimming at our pools for all county residents, free use of the weight room at Greenwood Mill. We have, you know, a lot of fitness classes, running programs. We have outdoor gyms that are both parks that are free for folks to use, walking trails. You'll hear from John a little later on from the community survey. Trails are one of the number one. desired things in this community. So we do have that for folks. We have, you know, we just have a lot of opportunities for people to achieve their fitness goals. Something else we instituted several years ago through the use of private donations was a play fund. That is a scholarship that provides area youth, area county youth that don't have the funds to participate with us, a scholarship, and it provides, you know, they can participate in any of our sports seasons, a summer camp, things like that. So we're proud to not let finances be a barrier for a child to have a good opportunity and do something healthy and active and fun. I spoke about our rec division. We obviously have our parks division. Like I said, in 71, we started with one park, Clearbrook. Now we're up to five quality parks. We have Sharando, Stonewall, Rose Hill Park, Frederick Heights Park. We've added a very popular walking trail around the Bowman Locks. We have a park library. I'm seeing a lot of folks go up there and enjoy that. And in the last few years, we've been expanding out at Northwest Sharando with a playground, outdoor fitness equipment, restroom, and it's adjacent to our paved walking trail there and it leads right up to our bike park that we installed in 2020. So our park staff is busy. They maintain not only our park facilities, but all the school grounds at all the elementary schools, middle schools, high schools, and do all of the athletic field prep at our middle and high schools. So they're very busy. On average, they prep about 1,100 fields for games throughout a year and they're mowing over 900 acres annually. So that's a lot of grass and things to take care of. Not only do they do that, they help with our rec division, with our events. They set up the Winter Wonderland with the lights, the battlefield half, just a plethora of things they assist us with. In addition, they help to facilitate our youth sports partners. That's soccer. Golf ball, baseball, and the inline hockey. And that's just an additional recreational opportunity for our youth in the county. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we were very fortunate to be able to keep our parks open to provide safe outdoor activities for the community. Like I said, we have outdoor fitness equipment at both parks. The bike walking paths at Sharando, pretty much all our parks have nice walking paths. We'll be opening up three pickleball courts. Later this fall out at Clearbrook. We have a partnership with Blue Ridge Volleyball Association. They have donated the funds to build the sand volleyball complex at Clearbrook and they'll be adding a sixth court in the spring. And we are opening an amphitheater around the Bowman Library in the spring as well. So we look forward to a lot of events and things that we'll be providing there. And we are working on the Abrams Creek Trail along Cincinnati Road. Once that's finished, that's going to be a great, great opportunity for folks. I'm going to turn the presentation back over to John now, and I'd be happy to answer any questions you may have at the conclusion. I thank you for your time. Thank you. Thanks. Great. So the comprehensive plan tasks the department with contributing to the physical, mental, cultural needs of the community, its economic and social well-being, and its sense of civic pride and social responsibility through the implementation of an integrated plan. And so what you just heard from Director Herbaugh is the work that we do on a day-to-day basis to execute on that directive. As we look to the future, we strive to have consistency with planning document guidance, starting with the comprehensive plan, looking at the area plans, and then creating our own plans. And so in this example, the area plan for Eastern Frederick shows in the light green, some potential future park locations, and you'll have to take my word for it, but there are circles in those locations in the map on the right. So just one example. As the comprehensive plan directs the department to meet certain community needs, the department has prepared plans for how to approach the future. One basis for getting a sense of community needs is the community survey. The department just completed its third community survey in 2022, we do one every five years. This is a randomized statistically valid survey instrument, goes out to households throughout the county. The survey results inform the department master plan, providing a more detailed level for department goals than the high-level vision expressed in the comprehensive plan. It's available on the Parks and Rec website, as is the community survey results. The Parks and Rec master plan is updated every five years, typically right after the community surveys, so that we have the most accurate data. The most current data, and so for 2023, we're looking to do the next update for the master plan. Driven by community perspective, the survey provides insight into facility needs, which is what's shown here, and derived benefits. Sorry, it shows facility needs, recreation needs, and derived benefits that households in Frederick County get from Parks and Recreation. The top benefit, I'm pleased to say, is improved quality of life, which fits well into the stated Board of Supervisors vision statement. Our needs are also articulated in the capital improvement plan. That's obviously a component of the comprehensive plan, so this is last year's approved, not the one that we're due to be submitting for consideration coming up. But you'll see a lot of overlap between the community needs in the survey, and then the items and prioritization of the proposed capital improvement plan. Planning directives in support of recreation opportunities. So Code Section 165 speaks to the intention of creating high quality neighborhoods that are attractive and pedestrian oriented. The way the Code achieves this is through recreation requirements as well as sidewalk and trail requirements. And the sidewalk and trail requirements, as you saw earlier, happens to be the number one desired recreation facility in the county. So in this area, in the Code side, which is more your purview, if there was one ask, it would be to simply recognize how important these code requirements are to quality of life in Frederick County, and to please preserve them. So we have recreation requirements, requirements, which are that in small lot subdivisions, there's an obligation to provide recreation amenities in those subdivisions, and that's a great way of ensuring that there's recreation available for folks as they move in. And then the sidewalk and trail requirements ensure that you can get out and move. And so I know all of you are aware of neighborhoods where there are sidewalks and neighborhoods where there's not, and certainly you see a different dynamic going on in each. So that's our presentation for tonight, and as Stacey said, I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Does anybody have any? I have one. I was just going back to the finances from earlier. Did I hear you say it was like a $6.1 million budget item? And you get 58% of that back? And the recreation side of it, yes. From our programming that we offer. Because that's $3.6 million. I mean, does that mean you spend the difference, or does that go back into 6.1 plus 3.6? So the difference is covered by the local tax dollar. Okay. Okay. All right. Thank you. Anybody else? Well, I know personally, you know, Stacey, we go a long way back, and you know, the things that the Parks and Rec do for this county are just amazing. They really are. You know, a good example is the that Parks and Rec has been running for 20 plus years. There's been hundreds and hundreds of kids who have gone through that program, and it's just been fun watching them grow up and then watching their kids now doing it. And, you know, so thanks for all the work that you all do do in the community. I mean, there's so many things you offer, and thank you. Thank you. I just have one more question based on the last comment you said about housing developments looking for recreation areas inside their developments. So, you know, I'm not sure if you're looking for recreation areas inside their developments. So, you know, I'm not sure if you're looking for recreation areas inside their developments. So, you know, I'm not sure if you're interested in or I think, you know, by the time this is seen before me, maybe Cafe Mall will be going into someasa in a way that already is. Will I know about how big the park is so we can include the민 tive this talk? It is a project that's going to take only two years for Backbone forent leaders to establish a park. And there would be constraint is comprehensive land, the standards that they're tasked with. So, does that become common ground inside their development that they take care of? Or is that become part of a parks and Rec for you all to maintain? nuts and bolts these guys can can speak to more but I think a great example would be like Snowden Bridge you roll in the Snowden Bridge and you see the bubble for their indoor courts and then they've got the pool and the playground and all of that those are those are you know made mandatory by the the recreation requirements and so those folks have something well I think you guys for what you do we used to play a lot of ball together yeah I can't play ball anymore my knees are shot well thank you thank you for the presentation appreciate you coming out tonight thank you all right next item up is a public hearing regarding CUP number oh nine two two four McKenzie's doodles below mr. Klein it's actually gonna be miss Felton there well miss mrs. film there hi hi hi, thank you mr. chairman and members of the Planning Commission this is a request for a conditional use permit for a dog kennel breeding the 8.2 one acre property is located at 1038 Heights Road in the back Creek district the zoning district is our a royal areas if I can turn your attention to the screen the property is outlined in blue my pointer is not very bright the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance defines a kennel as a place to house board breed handle or otherwise keep or care for dogs for sale or in return for compensation kennels are permitted in the RA royal area areas with the approved conditional use permit the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance requires the kennels be subject to additional performance standards to mitigate negative impacts to adjoining residential structures a site visit conducted by staff determined that the existing buffers are adequate the kennel is intended to be observed an estiver sustainable CEO for the Medien are destined to provide more ownership and satisfaction for cattle living in the лиze by state law and the Franklin Highways Charter approved by委urdale rel觸амatique as the current target Terri Bughu Ays hotel dieses car other pda driven because housing and old age commercial material is required and occupied by the marketing authority dances東京 gonna see'veùng the introduction of ceger IC is a Chicago residence area across the street and is the school's top location and often will be conducted indoors and therefore meets the intent of the zoning ordinance. The kennel operations will be conducted inside the existing garage and in a detached kennel of which is fully enclosed. The applicant owns and breeds five female dogs. These dogs are limited to breeding terms only and are returned. I'm sorry, the males are limited to the breeding term only and are returned to their owners. Litters are then raised and sold. Weekdays are by appointments only. Customers visit and take the puppies home the same day, primarily on weekends. On an average, the applicant hosts 10 families 20 to 25 times annually to enable families to meet, select, and choose their puppy and to see the environment and the care the applicant provides. Should the planning commission find the use to be appropriate, staff would suggest the following conditions. All review agencies, comments, and requirements shall be complied with at all times. A maximum of two employees not residing on the premise shall be permitted with the CUP. All dogs must be confined to kennels indoors between the hours of 9 p.m. and 7 a.m. Hours of operation for the public to access the property shall be between the hours of 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. New structures to be used as kennels will require building permits prior to being constructed or relocated on the property. New structures to be used as kennels will require building permits prior to being constructed or relocated on the property. One monument-style sign with a maximum sign area not to exceed 50 square feet and not to exceed 10 feet in height is permitted. Any expansion or modification of this use will require an approval of a new CUP. The staff is available to answer any questions. Mr. Brown, the applicant, is also here to answer any specific questions that you may have. Thank you. Planners, any questions for Ms. Stoner? I have one. So, how would the times of operation and the times of the dogs being locked up be different? It's a one-hour difference. It just raises some confusion for me. So, the dogs have to be locked up at 7 p.m., but you can still be open for business until 8 p.m.? So, putting the dogs inside is to reduce the noise, limiting the customers on the outbound. So, if the dogs are inside for hours, the dogs would be inside. So, the hours of operation may be until 8 p.m., but the dogs are inside at 7 p.m. If the people are there to see the dogs, they're going to be inside seeing the dogs. Does that make sense? It's an answer, and I'll accept it. Mr. Brown is here. He can actually elaborate on it if that would be more appropriate. I don't need any additional elaboration on it. That's a confusing thing for me. In other words, if you're open for business, the dogs are outside. If you're closed for business for the day, they're locked up and you're done. You know, just an hour difference on those times didn't make much sense to me. I didn't see that perspective, and that makes total sense. Moving to my right. Going to my left. Any questions? No questions. Any questions for Mr. Brown? I'm going to be opening a public hearing. So, no. Mrs. Feltoner, thank you so much. Okay. All right. At this time, I'm going to open a public hearing to anyone who wants to come forward and speak for or against this item. Please come forward, state your name, magisterial district, and please keep your comments to three minutes or less. Sir, you may come forward. If I can interrupt. My name is Larry Rickard. I am not an adjoining neighbor to the proposed plan, but I am the closest neighbor to that facility. It states that there's agricultural land all around it, which is correct, but the width of that land that separates me from the proposed plan is 30 yards. So, that is 30 yards from separating his property from my property. I'm approximately 130 yards from, if you look at the paper, it states a weaning kennel. I'm 130 yards from that weaning kennel. Presently, I don't have any property. I don't have any property. Presently, I don't know if the kennel is in operation, but we can hear dogs howling, and dogs do get out from time to time. The adjacent neighbors to mine, Eugene Snow and Larry Rickard, Sr., have had the dogs in their property at times. My concern would be the noise, and it says in here that a buffer is not required because he is surrounded by agricultural land. 30 yards is not a very wide piece of property to keep noise and a buffer from me. I can hear it on my back deck presently. So, it's kind of a little misleading that it's all zoned RA when you have a resident that's 130 yards away, and there's no requirement for that. I'm not necessarily opposed to that. I've never lived beside anybody that had a dog facility like this. But the noise is a concern of mine. I have a dirt road in front of me where people go up and down at 50 miles an hour. I can't sit on my front porch, and I can't even have my windows open or put clothes out on the line from the dust from that. And I would like to sit on my back deck and have some peace and quiet when I get home, as I'm sure anybody does. But dogs do one thing, and dogs bark. So, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know how is it controlled as a resident if there is an issue with that. Presently, he's running his kennel on 154 acres, and that's a whole lot more area than 8 acres for sure. And like I say, the 8 acres sounds like a great piece of property, but it's basically butting up to me with all but 30 yards. The weaning kennel will be the noisiest part of that, I am assuming. I know as we... I did agriculture, you wean calves, and they make the most noise. I'm sure dogs would do the same thing. So, like I say, presently I can hear him. There's not much buffer between me and him. He is in an open field, and anything that happens there or in any other homes, you can hear. There's no trees to buffer it. And that's my largest concern is the noise. I don't hate dogs, but I don't want to hear them all the time either. So, that's my biggest concern. Like I say, it says here that Category C buffer would not be required as the adjacent land is vacant agricultural nature. I'm separated from him by 30 yards. Not a whole lot of land there. So, my other concern is the hours. I guess he's delivering dogs just on Saturday and Sunday. There again, that's a time when most people recreate, but we're putting more people in there. We're putting more people in at that time. I don't know why dogs wouldn't be delivered through the week. You know, I can't really do the math. Average of 10 families. I don't know how many people that is. I don't know what an average family is. 20 to 25 times a year. So, are we looking at 6 to 7, 800 people coming in just on Saturday and Sunday? You know, it's like having a little party every Saturday or Sunday. I don't know all these questions or answers. And that's why I'm bringing them up. And maybe the gentleman can relate on that. So, I'm sure I've exceeded my two or three minutes. Like I say, everybody should have a dog. But, you know, dogs and noise, I hope it can be contained. And is there a course of recourse if it does to get to that point? So, maybe the gentleman can follow up on that. I will say on his presence, when I look at that, there's a large container. And it also says in here that you'll be bringing two additional buildings from that. I would ask what are those two buildings going to be used for? And the weaning facility that is already constructed, I'm assuming, is 18 feet off the property line. I thought there was a minimum of 50 feet for structures off of property lines. I might be wrong in that assumption. But if you look at that, if you look at your paperwork, if you have that, it's showing 18 feet. So, I think there's a minimum there. Thank you for your time. Appreciate it. Thank you. Is there anyone else to speak for or against this? Okay. I'll close the public hearing portion of this. And now we have discussion among commissioners. Going to the left. Yes, Ms. Frannon. Can we address some of his concerns? What? Can we address some of his concerns? Because Betsy and I went out. And I think there's some confusion. So that you all know. You can correct me if I'm wrong. But the dogs that they're breeding do not live there. There are customers that have dogs that will bring them back to be bred. And the one, so the, like the sires that come and the female whelping dogs, they'll be there a couple days. Until they do what they're supposed to do. And then they'll go home. Then the. They're not going to have puppies? They're going to go home to their owner who will take care of them. And then they'll come back, the whelping dogs, to deliver their puppies. And they'll take care of them for two months. And they're kept inside. The dogs you hear barking are their pet dogs. Like while we're there, we didn't hear any dogs barking. Oh, they're not? Not at all. Any dogs, they keep them inside. And they'll only take them out to walk them to go to the bathroom. Did you visit the site? No, I did not. No, ma'am. Because I know he asked all the neighbors to come. If, if you go and see it, he's, it's very well organized there. It's very clean. My understanding with him was he did visit me, and I appreciate that. But he'd also stated that the other kennel was being closed down. was being closed down. I must have misunderstood him at that point. I read that here. Okay. These become among the commissioners now. We've closed the public hearing part. In the note there, I know in the last kennel there was discussion, at least with the Board of Supervisors, over how to get rid of excrement and things. They have a company come in and pick it up and take it away, so that's not a problem. The dogs are kept inside. He walks them when they go to the bathroom and then takes them back in. The weaning shed is not where the puppies are. The puppies are inside their garage. That's where they're taking the mothers to separate them from the puppies. They're many times a day, depending on the schedule. They'll take the mother in to see the puppies. I would just maybe get a clarification from the staff on what Mr. Rickard said about the 18 foot off the property line. The setback for an accessory structure is 15 feet. They're okay there? They are. I just want to double check there. The category, what was it? Category C, buffer. What is that? They're required by the ordinance to install a buffer. When we did our site inspection, we determined that the existing vegetation on the site and the existing fence that the owner has erected otherwise satisfies that requirement. If we found that the buffer was insufficient, given they tore down all the landscaping or something on their property, then we would require them to do the buffer because that's part of the ordinance requirement. Otherwise, our site inspection determined that. What they have out there is sufficient. It's sufficient. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else on the left? Ms. Brannon. When we went out and talked to them, the employees, rather than a full-time, they're going to make one of them two part-time. I talked to Wyatt, and he had agreed to upping the employees to three, but they didn't make it in here. Okay. We'll get to that point when we make a motion. We'll get to that point when we make a motion. Okay. Any other questions on my left? Any other questions on my right? We're good there. Okay. This is Back Creek, so I need a motion from Back Creek District. Ms. Brannon, that'll be the time to point out what you want to do with the employees. Okay. I recommend that we change condition two from two employees to three and that we approve the conditional use permit. Permit 03. 092. Oh, that's the wrong one. Okay. 0922. Just to clarify. Mr. Chairman, just to clarify, your motions are to make a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors that they approve? Yes. Second. Okay. We've got a motion. We've got a second. I will start down on my right. Ms. Kozel. Kozel, yes. Emanuel, yes. Horndorf, yes. Dawson, yes. Markert, yes. Brombeck, yes. Brannon, yes. And the Chair votes yes. So this will go before the Board of Supervisors, November the 9th. We thank you so much for coming out. Next item is action item regarding rezoning 0922 for the Kenyon LC. Mr. Chairman, I need to recuse on this one. So, yes. Do we do the presentation? Yes. Okay. We received clarification from the County Attorney and the Planning Director that you all have a majority here this evening and you can act on this item. Wonderful. Thank you. Okay. This is rezoning 0922 for the Kenyon LC. Again, this is an action item not requiring a public hearing. This is an application to rezone approximately 174.98 acres from the R.P. residential performance district with Proffers. Subject properties are located in the Redbud District. Directing your attention to the screen, the subject properties are shown in yellow, which is our R.P. zoning designation and are outlined in blue. They are immediately south of Berryville Pike Route 7 to the west of Clark County and the wastewater treatment facility and east and west of Edie's Lane and south of Valley Mill Road. You all may be familiar with this project. It's under a couple of different names. Most recently, it's called the Redbud District. Most recently, Opec and Crossing. And it is a residential housing development that is presently in the works of getting under construction, but it was approved back in the early 2000s and modified again in 2015. This minor proffer amendment would amend those previously approved proffers with rezoning 0615 and further specify that instead of a building permit triggering requirements for transportation improvements, it would specify that no certificate of occupancy would be issued until the completion of the improvements to the Route 7 intersection and the collector spine road that would serve the development. So again, this is a minor change in the language from building permit to certificate of occupancy. All of the other provisions in the approved proffer statement would remain unaltered by this rezoning request. That includes the land use, the total number of units, the density of the development, and other transportation improvements. It's only a minor clarification to that one proffer. One minor update today that was not part of your staff report. It's the construction of the road. It's part of your staff report. After discussions with staff, the applicant, and the county attorney, we are going to make one other modification to proffer 13.1 as it pertains to the escalator for monetary proffer guarantees. The way that it's currently worded, it says with this rezoning, but the applicant has agreed to revert that escalator back to their original 2015 rezoning, so any escalator would take into account 2015 to the present. That change will be reflected in the proffers that go forward to the Board of Supervisors, but we wanted to let you all know that that's not going to happen. We will know that they had agreed to that verbally today, and we expect to get revised proffers from them in the next day or two. And their applicant is certainly here this evening, and he may speak to that item as well. Again, this is a minor proffer amendment. It does not require public hearing. And following this presentation, staff would be seeking a recommendation to the Board from the Planning Commission on this proposed rezoning. Patrick Sowers, representing the Canyon, I'll see is here this evening, and I believe he'd be happy to answer any questions if you have any. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Klein. I'll start with my leftist. I'll start with my leftist this time. Any questions on my left? Any questions on the right? Tyler, I'd have just one. I'm full of questions tonight. Oh, I forgot. No, my question is the change in going from a building permit to an occupancy permit. I just see where there could be an issue with that. So with the building permit, it's probably the builder, but the occupancy permit is the buyer, right? Right. So all of a sudden now we're holding up the buyer moving, you know, being able to move into the house because maybe some road improvements aren't done versus tying it to the builder before we issue a building permit. Well, the builders are getting the occupancy permits before they put the houses, close on the houses and do all of the, you know, transaction to sell it. So it's really a change to allow that extra time between when a building permit is issued and when they actually get to occupying the units that they wanted that change. They have additional time to do those road improvements. For those of you who aren't familiar with the project, there's a fairly substantial improvement that's going to be made to the intersection of Route 7. It may involve signalization. It may involve some kind of other treatment. It's going to be a fairly long-term project in addition to collecting a new major collector roadway. So given the desirability of housing and the need to make those improvements at the same time, they needed a couple of extra months built in, and that's where that change comes from. And you're satisfied with that? I mean, you think it's going to work seamless? Yes. We're certainly satisfied with that requirement. Most of our modern proffers are tied to occupancy, not the building permit, given that some people get building permits and they sit on them for years and years and years, those kind of things. All right. Good enough. Thank you. Yes, sir. All right. Any other questions? All right. This is a Redbud district. So do we have a motion from Redbud? Yes. I make a motion that we approve the rezoning 0922 for the Canyon LLC. All right. Do we have a second? Second. All right. We have a motion. We have a second. I'll start on my left this time. Ms. Brannon? Yes. Brumbach, yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Dawson, yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And the Chair votes yes. Thank you very much. Under other, before I call Mr. Bishop, I want to thank the staff for last night at Jordan Springs. We had over 115 there, and the staff did a fabulous job. We looked at some of the suggestions that were thrown out there. So I wanted to amuse you. And other guys known to us who this stuff get, of course from the 1966-1989 easing process. As I was saying to people, I watch thisette set up. As I did them off toray at the FMA committee. I didn't go to the FMA, but I wasrezed him, and some of the folks were thought to have And remember, we will have cookies. We make a difference where we can. Not a long list for you this evening. Under recent approvals, we do have the shady-owned property. You may know it as the Carbaugh property. There's a site plan that has recently been approved there for a 562,000-square-foot warehouse. That does not represent the totality of that property, so you'll hear more about that property in the future. And under pending, we do have the sheets that is proposed in Middletown at Exit 302, immediately on the east of Exit 302, which is pending. But that one's probably going to be a little while. It's got a little work to do. I know they've got VDOT issues there. Just by way of reminder of recent items, you've seen Metro Montt that went forward, as well as the Kim Henry Tower have both been tabled at the board level. And Fruit Hill, which you just had a work session on, does remain on schedule for you to see it on November 2nd at your meeting. We did receive revised proffers for that one today. Thanks, sir. No problem. All righty. With that, do I have a motion to adjourn? Second. We're adjourned. Everybody have a great evening. Good work. Thank you.
