Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2024-04-17
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=221
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good evening. Board of Supervisors' actions last Wednesday, April the 10th, was there were three rezonings that were all approved. Rezoning 0623 Winchester Gateway, rezoning 0124 Singh Transportation Incorporated, and rezoning 0623 Winchester Gateway, and rezoning 0224 Washington Commons. Again, all three of those rezonings were approved. Conditional use permit for Christopher Bowie for an auto maintenance facility was approved, and an appeal from a planning appeal, basically, zoning appeal, action on that was postponed until May of 24, next month. And that is all, Mr. Chair. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That completes our committee reports. The next item on our agenda is citizen comments. Any citizen who wishes to speak to the Planning Commission concerning an item that is not on the agenda for public hearing this evening, certainly welcome to do so at this time. This would be a time when you can come forward and please provide your name, your Magisterial District, and I would ask you to limit your comments to three minutes or less. Good evening, sir. Good evening. Hello. Hello, Board. My name is Sammy Sphere. I am a resident of the Stone County Public Service. I am a resident of the Stone County Public Service. Stonewall district and I come to request that you act now to change the residential performance ordinance to allow up to 10 laying hens to be kept on property of residential zoning under certain considerate restrictions I have a daughter curious kids in the neighborhood and enthusiastic elderly neighbors who remember raising laying hens themselves when they were children in the area I believe this is necessary for a sustainability green and health conscious living education children's activities neighborly interaction and local food supply I know this has come before the board before I believe and I saw one public comment concerned about nuisance issues I have policy in a letter a bunch of 15 points that cover safeguard against that potential nuisance concern they are they why it had said he would uh make copies and send that afford that over to you guys but this is not for commercial use it's just for an accessory use on the same premises in the backyard of a single-family detached dwelling maximum of 10 chickens no noisy roosters no breeding chickens and then there's a bunch of other stuff must be enclosed no predation of you know wild critters and whatnot and then that's it's pretty much it it's all in this letter I hope that you'll you'll review that and consider it I appreciate your considerate consideration thank you spirit if you can give that to Shannon down here thank you she will get that distributed out thank you very much sir would anyone else like to speak to the Planning Commission seeing none I will close the citizen comment portion and we'll move into public hearings our first public hearing this evening is rezoning 0 3-24 for Snowden Bridge Stevenson Bullard and the City of Nassau and other residents across the area. and we'll move into public hearings our first public hearing this evening is rezone in 0 3-24 for Snowden Bridge Stevenson Bullard and the City of Nassau and other residents across the area. village to Brookfield Stephenson village LLC in the center bridge holdings LLC mr. Klein good evening sir yes good evening mr. chairman members of the Planning Commission this is rezoning application oh three twenty four for Stephenson village two and this is a request to rezone approximately 330 acres of the r4 residential planning community district with proffers to the r4 district with modified proffers the subject property is located within the Stonewall Magisterial District the proposed proffer amendment includes changes to the permitted density housing types cash proffers recreational amenities commercial development accounting office space that were included in the original set of proffers and staff would note the maximum number of units permitted within the development would remain unchanged as a result of this proper modification request directing your attention to the screen the subject property is outlined in blue this is what is better known as phase two of the Snowden bridge community which forms the northern property boundary to the west is Milburn Road and the current extent of Snowden bridge Boulevard through the Greystone Industrial Park the red line shown on your screen is future route 37 and again this is just west of route 11 and interstate 81 this project has an extensive site history some of you may recall the approval of this rezoning back in 2000 and sorry back in 2003 there have been no changes to this application since 2003 as it pertains to the original proper statement so the proffers that are currently on the books go back to 2003 again a maximum of 200 or sorry 2465 residential units was permitted at the time of the original rezoning given that the communities are for our planned residential community it included single-family detached homes townhomes multiplex and multifamily residential units and a number of other areas that are not part of the original project will be approved in the next few days. the development they also proposed a centrally located commercial center and a daycare site that daycare site has developed as of today there was a school site that was conveyed to Frederick County and that is the current Jordan Springs Elementary School they have a community park dedication which is the old chart the planned old Charlestown Road Park and there are a number of other recreational amenities in the facility including an existing pool and tennis complex walking trails playgrounds totlock and other amenities that are not part of the original project. and the like they've also they also proffered to develop a collector road that would go from old Charleston Road and connect back to route 11 again portions of that are complete the first part which is the Snyder Bridge Boulevard which serves the residential part of the community Frederick County through a revenue share project completed the portion through the industrial park between route 11 and the western boundary of the property and there's a small balance of that roadway that's bonded for construction there have been multiple iterations of this project since 2003 and it's a lot of work to do. once again there's a lot of work to do. multiple master development plans done by the developer which have amended the housing type mix within their land use breakdown table and the densities Stevenson Village to again that phase two of the project has a master development plan that was approved in 2022 but just want to walk you all through some of that said history of your unfamiliar with the project. And this is their original generalized development plan the one that is proffered with the rezoning again. you have. the major collector. road center bridge Boulevard coming down from old Charleston road centrally through the site and back towards the west intersected with Milburn Road and then that portion that is complete tween route 11 and the Western property boundary the blue land Bay one is Jordan Springs Elementary School the greenish yellow plan Bay two is future old Charleston Road Park all the yellow that you see is that market rate housing residential units a mix of again of town homes and single-family detached homes as originally proffered land Bay five this red area was the planned commercial complex and then everything you see in orange at the bottom of the screen which is identified as land Bay four was the planned active adult portion of the community and again basically everything north of Hyatt run here is what we know today is Snowden Bridge which has been developed and built out to its maximum capacity and the balance of the property center bridge or sorry Stevenson Village two is the southern portion of the property which contains the active adult you and like staff stated there could be minor amendments within those land base to change that mix of the single-family and townhome mix but they are capped at two thousand four hundred and sixty five units and they've built about twelve hundred twenty six units that are about halfway done with their project this is our future long-range land use plan the neon pink color it reflects our planned unit development which is reflective of the r4 zoning for the community again one other element to this project is future route 37 which comes along with the western slope catching Wiecester toapp axes and the big break odd-考ẫон으로 statement as approved in 2003 but staff points out that it is an amenity a planned amenity or sorry a planned roadway that is identified on our plans for the purposes of your discussion this evening in regards to the comprehensive plan in the transportation improvements plan the proposal remains compatible specific to the future land use designation again that planned unit development or PUD designation there's no change proposed in the existing zoning of the parcels slated to remain R4 it's just changes to the housing type mix and other proffers staff would again note that the proposal does not address all future transportation improvements including that future route 37 right away that was shown in the preceding slide and again some of that has to do with the history of route 37 as it pertains to this project going back to 2003 so the meat of their proposal is again a revision to their proffer statement and their generalized development plan they're proposing a number of changes to those and staff will walk through each of these changes but again they're seeking a much-needed change in the project and the proposal is not a revision to their plan they're proposing a number of changes to their plan they're proposing a modification to the uses density and mix of housing types in proffers in proffer 3a2 they are seeking a revision to the capital facility impacts contained in proffer 4 they are making a modification to their recreational amenities and linear parks proffer 9a to add an additional community amenity they're making modifications to their commercial center requirement containing proffer 13f revising the location minimum square footage to be provided and to extend the timing of providing that commercial space and they're making modifications to their commercial center requirement containing additional community amenities and to extend the timing of providing that commercial space and again staff will walk through each of those changes in more detail this is their proposed generalized development plan reflecting those revised changes to the land use mix and the commercial center I think it's more important to look at it in a side-by-side with our 2003 generalized development plan which is currently approved in the 2024 version the biggest change you see is the movement of land bay 5 which is that commercial center from a centrally located position in the project and the commercial center is a commercial center and the commercial center is a commercial center and the commercial center is a project to up against Milburn Road here at the westernmost boundary of the property which you also see is a shift in the yellow market rate residential land bays that gets larger at the expense of land bay 4 which is the active adult which again shrinks they also with on this GDP they've identified the location of that new recreational amenity but you can see the change it's not a significant change as far as the GDP is concerned but it is a significant change given that the content of those changes in the proper statement so the first change for your consideration is a modification to that land use mix this is a change to the percentage of total housing types to be provided for townhomes multifamily and active adult units when you look at the land bay breakdown which was contained in the staff report and probably in a better quality there's a reduction in the minimum multifamily to be provided from seven percent minimum to five percent a increase in the townhome maximum from 30 percent to 40 percent of the total housing types and a decrease in the active adult portion from a 30% minimum to be provided to a 20% minimum to be provided and by shifting around this minimum maximums as it pertains to certain unit types it enables the developer to potentially develop up to 240 or more market rate housing units so it doesn't change the total number of housing units to be provided for the community that number remains unchanged but it enables them to create more market rate homes and less active adult age-restricted housing and when you create less age-restricted housing and you create more market rate housing you increase the capital impacts of that development on County services taking a brief pause on the discussion the proffers we want to touch base on the capital impacts you all will be familiar with the capital impact model and it is a tool used by county staff to evaluate the cost of new residential development on County services it is adopted by the Board of Supervisors as a policy tool and it's known as our capital impact model the model has been designed to project fiscal impacts they may result with land use change decisions to schools Fire and Rescue Services parks and recreation and other county services this is our input of the model it's it's a proprietary model developed by Tishler Bryce that the county staff maintains within the model you're able to select various areas of the county in this case an urban service area for Snowden Bridge or Stephensonville and West Virginia and it allows us to be involved in choices in a state framework and also our local development centers as well as the state Village 2, you're able to input what schools service that development. So in this case, the elementary school is Jordan Springs. The middle school is Jameswood Middle and the high school is Jameswood High School. We also are able to specify what the fire rescue service area is, which is Clearbrook and specify how many units are being created at this time or how many, what the change in the unit type is. So we put 240 single family attached or townhome units. And what it comes out of the model is the capital impact to the county. So on the left-hand side of your screen, under the red column is the full capital impact. This is the impact to the county for these new units. The amount that the county is able to capture through the proper rules is under the capacity triggered amount, which is generated, which is the number of units generated by that particular development and the impact it would have on schools, fire and rescue and the light down the line. And what you're given at the bottom is a grand total of what we can collect. So for a single family attached unit, $2,024. The impact to the county is $19,038. For a single family detached home, it's about $20,000. So these numbers shift from year to year as the capital impact model is updated and capacity amounts and the background data is updated, but presently in $2,024, the capital impact of a new market rate unit for a townhome in Stony Bridge is $19,038. Looking at their capital impact contribution revision in the proper statement, the applicant is proposing a $15,000 per unit contribution for any of those new 240 market rate units. So that 15,000 unit trigger would commence at the 1,766 non-age restricted residential unit. This leaves a potential shortfall to the county of up to $5,309 per unit for any newly converted units based on our capital impact model output. Any unit staff would clarify that any units developed up to that proposed trigger revision in the proffers would continue to utilize the original proffer amount from 2003 with that consumer price index exhalation. That current amount is about $7,897. So while the original proffer per unit contribution may have been sufficient to offset capital impacts on those facilities in 2003, the circumstances in Frederick County since 2003 have greatly changed and the proposed amount falls well short of the county's current calculations for capital impacts. And this is a much better way to look at the comparison of all the different facilities that are in the federal system. And this is a much better way to look at the comparison of all the different facilities in the federal system. And this is a much better way to look at the comparison of all the different facilities in the federal system. And this is a much better way to look at the comparison of all the different facilities in the federal system. And this is a much better way to look at the conversation of all the different facilities in the federal system. Again, the first column here is your 2003 proffer amount with current escalation. For single family homes, townhomes, that amount is $7,897.70. That amount is $7,897.70. For a unit ready to be built in Snowdon today. They are paying that proffer amount to put in the county. The capital impact model projection output for 2024 is $20,309 for single family homes, and $19,000 for townhomes. The applicant is proposing a capital contribution to save up about that 200,000 for the tro ait the capital contribution amount in their revised set of proffers at $15,000 for both single family and townhomes. This leaves a potential shortfall to the county, depending on the housing type, of about $5,000. Staff would note that active adult units generate a far less capital impact to the county. In 2003, that value was about $2,500. In 2024, it's actually about $652 to the county, and that reflects fire and rescue services primarily, but there's no school impact, so that's why that number's substantially less. So age-restricted units obviously have a much smaller capital cost to Frederick County. In regards to their recreation amenities addition, they are proposing a revision to include an additional recreation feature for the non-age-restricted component of Snowden Bridge, or sorry, Stevenson Village 2. Staff would point out that the timing and the triggers for that recreational amenity, commencing with the 1,450th unit, 1,500th unit, and the 1,700th unit do not meet the applicable zoning ordinance standard for phased development and proposes a lesser standard. Typically, when developing residential communities, the zoning ordinance requires a 50% completion of the recommendities by the 60% of completion of the unit mix. In regards to the commercial center revisions, the applicant has made a revision to extend the trigger for the commercial center from the 1,200th unit to six years from the 1,200th unit. The 1,200th unit having been triggered, and they removed the requirement for a 60,000 square foot minimum to be provided. And staff would note that the revision does not propose a reasonably related timeframe as it relates to the development of the commercial center component of the project in relation to the development of additional residential units. And the completion of the commercial square footage should coincide with the development of additional residential units and provide for uses that are complimentary to a residential community. And finally, the last change to the proffer statement was a deletion of the rent-free county office space proffer, and it removes this requirement in its entirety. Staff would note that this may not fulfill the original intent of the proffer as written in 2003, or provide a new alternative offset to offset the impact of the development to general county services. That rent-free county office space proffer in 2003 contemplated 10 years of rent-free space and about 2,500 square feet of space. The new rent-free county office space proffer was a new option for the county to use in the community. So fairly lengthy set of changes that occurred to the proffer statement, again, proposes to the density, the mix of housing types, cash contributions for residential units, they've added an additional recreational amenity, they have revised and removed requirements as it pertains to the commercial development component of the community, and they have removed the requirement for county office space. This is a public hearing item, and following your public hearing, this evening, staff is seeking a recommendation to forward to the board on this proposed rezoning application. Myself and Mr. Pearson are happy to answer any questions you may have as it pertains to this application, and Ty Lawson is here this evening representing the applicant and owner of the property. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Are there any questions for Mr. Klein? To my left, I'll start over here. Molly says yes. I have a few questions. The county office space, what is that for? What was the county intending? From the best of our recollection in 2003, there was some consideration by Frederick County to have satellite service facilities around the county, treasurer's office, voting registrar, like facilities where they would be within certain pockets of the population. In 2003, that kind of predates the internet and a lot of the online services that are offered by the county, so it's not something that the county necessarily needs at this time. OK. In cualiterate, is the county dyscalculics what does that entail? Certainly not allowed to work in the county or in any community, you know state shut. And the lack of being able to provide to the county for unemployment essential documents that are appropriate to make this survey runs essentially to the schools based on the entire student population versus, like all the students aren't causing a new school to be built. Like how does our model count? Our model is a tool adopted by the Board of Supervisors. It is the only tool that we can use to analyze and project capital costs. Within our model there's a lot of background information about student generation, service areas, the capital improvement plan information is in there. The applicant has not provided sufficient justification on why 15,000 is appropriate versus 20,000 or 19,000. But does it take into account, like it kind of took me back that they want to spread it out amongst all of the students. Tyler, I can probably address that as it relates to our model. I think they are applying a different methodology than we use in that respect. And we would argue that ours is superior and advantageous to the county and in compliance with state code, which is once the schools are over capacity, they're essentially buying an additional capacity per student. So the model values what that each additional seat would cost to construct a new capital facility. And in turn that's the impact that is generated from a capital perspective. Thank you. Thank you. Anything else, Ms. Brown? No, not right now. Any other questions? Mr. Marker. Yeah, I was wondering, does your model then take care of the difference in demand on the schools for an over 55 community versus the market rate community? It does, yes. When you calculate market rate, or sorry, when you calculate active addition, or when you calculate the cost of adult units or age-restricted units, the school's cost is not included in that because they're not generating any students in most cases. So they do not pay the school contribution. When you look at the model outputs, the school's number, the impact to the schools is the single greatest generator of capital impact and the biggest percentage of the total cost. So when you remove that element, the age-restricted units really don't have much of an impact on this particular service area of the county. And it's gonna vary around the county, depending on where you're at. And in the service area that includes the Clearbrook Fire and Rescue Services, which is the primary driver of age-restricted capital costs, there's not really an impact given their current facilities and service. So the delta, the red numbers that you showed on that chart of around $5,000, depending on the type of unit. It only applies to the market rate, non-age-restricted units. Yeah, so that includes the impact of going to market rate units. Correct, yes sir. So it's kind of the price to pay for making that change. Correct. Okay. I do have another. Good, good. Okay, Jim, all right. Comments, questions? Mr. DeHaven. Mr. Klein, you mentioned that the amended proffer removes the minimum square footage for the commercial that was originally 60,000. Does it set a new minimum or does it effectively remove it? Does it set a new minimum or does it effectively remove it? Does it set a new minimum or does it effectively remove it? Does it set a new minimum or does it effectively remove it? They have removed the minimum requirement to be provided. So the change would be to remove the requirement and to extend the trigger timeline for when commercial space would be provided. Mr. Chairman and Mr. DeHaven, we found out in speaking with the applicant today that that might've been an oversight from their perspective. And I think they intend to address that during their comments as well. Thank you. Yes, Mr. Kurtz. Thank you. Mr. Klein, if I could, I'm just trying to look at the math here. So what you shared with us built out so far is 1,226 total units, right? That's where we are in the overall project? Correct, they have built 1,233 units to date. And the trigger that we're talking about to kick in this new capital, the model is 1,766. That's 550 more units. Correct, that's 500. And what we're talking about is, Correct, that's 550 more units. And what we're talking about is, 50 more units that they would continue to pay their existing profit amount on. Yes, sir. Until we even get to the 15,000 that we're talking about. Correct. And the rezoning, they're asking for changing 240 units. So even with those 240, we're still 300 away from even hitting that cap. So we're kind of a long way from hitting that cap. A little more than 500 units. Over 500 before we even hit that. Before you would hit that trigger amount. Sorry, trigger, yeah. Yeah, and there's no guarantee you'll hit that trigger amount because within their land bay table breakdown, there's minimum and maximum. So they can slide, their units, and they've done that over the years as the market has changed and the new housing types and products have come on and the market demand has changed. So there is the potential that they never actually hit that trigger because they could just move the unit types within that land bay breakdown and not trigger that new requirement. And what is the per unit that they are, the profit that they're paying right now? They're currently paying $7,897. And that number goes up every two years as we recalculate it with the consumer price index escalation, but that number's marginal. So it's only going to go up. So it would be close to that for the next 540 units? Correct, yes, sir. Thank you. You have other questions? Mr. Thomas. Turn your mic on. I remember when we did this rezoning, and there was significant discussion on the age-restricted units and also the commercial assisting in paying the taxes needed to provide the services in addition to the impact model, or the money that was provided. Are they in violation of their proffers now since they have built 1,233 units, 1,236 units, or 26 units, and it was supposed to have 60,000 square feet of commercial space after the 1,200th unit? When they hit the trigger for 1,200 units, they were made aware of the requirements, and they have 18 months to provide that commercial square footage. Within that, within the proffer statement, they even have the ability to extend that up further, two years, because there is a grocery store within a three-mile radius of the project. That is the Martins on Route 7. So theoretically, they have 36 months, or more than 36 months from now, to do that commercial square footage. They are not in violation of the proffer. They have triggered it, and they are under a time crunch at this point to develop it if the proffers remain unchanged. But theoretically, 36 months from now, if we don't change anything, they have to build 60,000 square feet of commercial space. Correct. Were they in violation? Correct. OK. That, there was significant discussion on that, because the tax base that would be assisted through that commercial development was looked at as helping to reduce what was paid as proffers and the burden on the county taxpayers. If we don't have the commercial space in 36 months, instead we have more houses that are going to cost a lot more money, because we're reducing the, and I'll back up just a minute here to add on to that, the age-restricted community was looked as a positive, because it does not impact the services as much. So we're reducing the amount of age-restricted housing. So we're increasing the services required for that. We're not getting the commercial property that was looked at as assisting to reduce the amount of tax burden on Frederick County residents. And now we're taking a hit of $1,300 or more, because they're going to pay $8,000 in proffers instead of $20,000 or $21,000 of proffers for the units. So pretty much so, the county taxpayers are going to get hit with a significant burden over the next four or five years for this development, for schools, for not having a commercial property, for having more commercial housing and not age-restricted housing. And I see this as a great benefit for the developer, but I see it as a real hose job for the county taxpayers. So I have a lot of concerns about this. This was a huge discussion topic back when we rezoned this. And this was a very significant rezoning with the amount of properties and looking at the impact on county taxpayers. And I see this as a very bad deal for the county taxpayers. I'll let the applicant speak to their fiscal analysis. OK. Thank you. Mr. Klein, in looking at the various departmental comments, one that popped out to me was Frederick Waters. Frederick Waters said their impact statement was silent on the projected water and sewer generation. Obviously, we had a drought emergency last year, and we're looking at the various departmental comments. One that popped out to me was Frederick Waters. Frederick Waters said their impact statement was silent on the projected water and sewer generation. Obviously, we had a drought emergency last year. And I think that's a great thing. And I think that's a great thing. And I think that's a great thing. And I think that's a great thing. Have you had any subsequent conversations with Frederick Waters concerning their ability to serve the project? We have not spoken specifically about this issue. It's a fairly typical comment from Frederick Waters about capacity and their ability to serve. Given that there's not a change in the type of use, it continues to be residential. It's just the difference between a market rate unit and an age-restricted unit. And they're already serving that community. I can't imagine it's going to be that big of an impact. However, they did make the comments that they issued at that time. And that was really just because of the lack of information provided in the impact analysis statement that was included in the rezoning materials. OK. Likewise, Frederick County Public Schools offered comments talking about when the various schools that will serve the development will be over capacity. Obviously, Jordan Springs Elementary School, I believe, is at about 130, 133% of capacity at present. But some future dates where they're going to be, I think, are going to be a little bit longer. But some future dates where they're going to be, I think, are going to be a little bit longer. But some future dates where they're going to be, I think, are going to be a little bit longer. And then we have a couple of other questions that were thrown out for James Wood High School and I believe James Wood Middle School as well. If the school's not over capacity, is it considered in any way in our fiscal impact model due to the fact that we're going to have to build capacity to mitigate these homes? The capital impact model is really a point in time. So it's presently right now with the inputs that are in there from July of 2023. So if you run these numbers after the James Wood project is complete and there's suddenly capacity available, the amount of school contribution goes down. The public school's comments are obviously looking ahead at the long term about what's coming online. But our capital impact model is a point in time locked into when we ran the model, which was earlier this year. So that number reflects the current capacity of the school as if you built a unit today, not when you built a unit in 2029, which is what the FCPS comment speaks to. So presently, the high school and the elementary school, the elementary school are over capacity, well over capacity, and do not have the ability to handle additional units at this time. However, over time, that's going to change. And if you ran this number in three or four years, you might get a different output. Is that constraint put into place by state law that we look at this point in time? Correct. Rather than anticipating this coming? The proffer laws stipulate where and how we can collect that impact fee as it pertains to current capacity. Very good. Thank you, sir. One more. Don't go away, Mr. Klein. Mr. Curtis. Thank you. I've got one more question, and I noticed Mr. Bishop isn't here. The 37 bypass, can you go back to that? And this isn't, I don't think this is impacted by our decision on this rezoning, but just as a matter of conversation, it looks like no matter what, either way, that 37 bypass cannot be constructed as originally planned, right? No matter what we do. It's going to go right over a bunch of houses. As they're developing their project, if this is the current route of Route 37, it does create a challenge to completing that segment of the roadway. As you all are well aware, the county is undertaking a fairly significant study about what 37 looks like in this area of the county, and it may ultimately change what is shown. The purpose of calling attention to it is because it is a planned facility on our adopted comprehensive plan, but I think we're all well aware of the challenges of developing, and I think we're all well aware of the challenges of developing a plan that is going to be implemented in the future Route 37 in this area of the county as it is shown on our plans. Mr. Kearns, for the Planning Committee, and I apologize for interrupting, Mr. Chairman, but for the Planning Commission's context, those are only platted lots as they stand currently, where you see it going over. The homes have not been constructed on that. They're entitled and subdivided accordingly, and Brookfield's working on the infrastructure to serve those lots, but know that there's no actual residences stood up in that portion of the project yet. Okay, thank you. I just... For clarity, it kind of stuck out. Yeah, thank you. Mr. Marker. Yes. Given the fact that an age-older community has much less traffic, much less traffic demand, usually less cars, obviously no children with cars, has your model calculated in the impact of that on the traffic? Our capital impact model presently does not include a transportation impact. Mr. Bishop did provide a late summary to myself and Mr. Pearson this afternoon. Age-restricted homes generate about half as many trips as a single-family detached home, so certainly Stony Bridge Boulevard is a planned collector road. It provides a significant connection between Old Charlestown Road and Route 11, and it is designed to handle... And the connection points are designed to handle the traffic generated by that development. And the unit... Like I said, the unit total isn't changing. It's the mix of units and potential trips, so... Okay, thanks. Ms. Brimback, yes. One more question on the 37 I just thought about. So on any other... Do we... Are there any requirements, or have we on other properties in this area required or people offered 37 conveyance? Typically on properties where it's raw land, we would require that they make a right-of-way dedication, and that's what happened on the Greystone property, which is the industrial property, to the west. Like Mr. Pearson said, their unit's already entitled. They've proceeded with platting and laying out their subdivision, so it's not something that we push the issue on as it pertains to this project, but we show on there for purposes of discussion that future Route 37 may impact their community in the future. If this was a current rezoning, we would probably likely... If it was raw land, we would require it. Raw land. Yes. Or that would have been one of the comments that staff would have made at the... at the rezoning comment. Mr. Barker. Yeah. One more question. Does the county benefit from these changes at all? I would say the capital impact model is the best estimation, and they are short of their capital impact to the county. They are falling short of what their impact is to the county. Thank you. Ms. Bramman. I'm on the 37 wagon. If we don't get easements for 37 and we say, but we put it on there so it may impact them in the future, I don't see how we can do anything about it. It's done. So I'm not understanding. We're undertaking a fairly significant study about what that route looks like. It's very likely that it's not going to look like this. Gotcha. Okay. Mrs. Bramman, and for the Planning Commission's information, it's certainly a comment that you all can offer for the applicant to consider. I think the history of this project makes it a really difficult conversation, and the scale and scope of the proposed changes, it would also be a very substantial request as it relates to what they are asking to change. So that would be how I would view Route 37 as it relates to this project right now. Does that make sense? Okay. Yeah. Mr. Kearns. I promise this is the last one. Sure. The commercial uses, can you talk about what some of the, I think in our minds we're all thinking, you know, like a strip mall or a supermarket or something, but is there anything to prevent, like, you know, like a storage, like public storage facility, or like what uses can they use? As it's currently proffered, they are allowed to develop any of the allowed or conditional uses permitted in the RP, residential performance, B1, neighborhood commercial, and B2, general business zoning district. So that includes, pretty much any retail and personal service that you can imagine, including self-storage, car wash, pharmacy, drugstore, grocery store. I think at the time of the original rezoning, it's clear that they intended for that commercial area to be a neighborhood scale commercial that would serve the resident population of Stony Bridge. Some of those services are handled elsewhere in the community. There's Rutherford Crossing and the shopping on Route 7, and the, you know, the switch to kind of like online purchasing and delivery, has kind of diminished the retail market a little bit, but they can develop any and all uses that are allowed in those zoning districts. And it's a fairly extensive list from, you will recall from our NAICS update, you know, any and everything is included in B2. That's our catch-all retail convenience zoning district. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Mr. Lawson, you and your team, welcome. Presentation? Thanks a lot. Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission, Ty Lawson. I'm also here with Scott Gukin from Brookfield and Chris Moan from Greenway. We recognize Moan. Huh? Yeah, yeah. Everybody. Appreciate the comments. And this is, it's not a rezoning. It's a proffer amendment. And the, the term that was thrown around was, was market rate. I think of that when I think of apartments. It's age-restricted and non-age-restricted. And what we're proposing to do is, is to amend that. Oh, man. There we go. History. Roger remembers 21 years ago, and so do I. And when we got this rezoned and approved, the total area is almost 800 acres. It was approved in 2003. I think it was around 1.30 in the morning. And the total number of units remain the same. And the 60,000 square feet is the same. We actually have appreciated Wyatt's comments. We proffered, as part of this proffer amendment, to move the commercial, but not to delete the 60,000 square foot. minimum. We did give the school site. We did give the park site. And 250 plus acres of open space. We also, if you all remember, conveyed, put historical easements, conservation easements on large tracts of land and, and gave that as well. Actually on, on either side of, of Milburn. That's, that's all being controlled by, by Shenandoah Valley Battlefield Association. Phase one developed and built out 1,200 plus units. The rec center, which is, it's incredible. With, with of course the, the pirate ship and the pools and the indoor tennis clubhouse and, and so on. And what we're proposing in phase two, with this, with this proffer amendment within the same cap of residential units, we're still have an age restricted neighborhood and, and note that remember there's maximum and minimums. What we're doing is proffering the ability to change the age restricted mix. This is by no means saying that we're not going to do that. And in fact, depending on the market, we could very well end up with either close to or at the top of the, the number of age restricted units that we currently have. So we're just building in a, an option. We also are just moving the commercial center and completion of Snowden Bridge Boulevard. I think it's important to point that out. There's been some discussion about transportation. We not only proffered to build that major collector road, but as we stand here today, we have bonded over $7 million bond that county has in its, in its, in its files now to complete the construction of Snowden Bridge Boulevard. That's, that's not just a proffer, that's a bonded obligation and we're constructing it as we speak. Wait a minute. Okay. Um, this is the, the layout that, that we originally planned. It does show the, uh, the commercial, uh, in the middle of the community. And, and if you all can, can go back in time, Rutherford at that point was an industrial park. It was owned industrial. Um, and our idea was, and we're, you know, looking at our crystal ball and what's 20, 30 years going to bring was we need, we need a grocery store. And so that's, that's what this was going to provide. And the, the 18 months in the two years that are built, built into the existing proffers, uh, were to allow for an additional extension of constructing the commercial. If a grocery store was built within a three mile radius, actually two have been built. One is the target with its groceries and then also, and, and you know, we take these for granted, but I think of the new Martins on route seven is within that three mile radius. And if we go back to when we got this zone, none, none of those existed. So things have changed. Um, what we're looking to do is relocate the commercial land bay and to put it closer to the industrial further down Snowden Bridge Boulevard. The part that's that's already been constructed coming off 11 so that it's got a better chance of some viability. We don't think a regional grocery store is coming to this property. Uh, given what's happened in the intervening time. Um, and so that was that was the reason to move it. The other is is to convert 240 age restricted units to the possibility of non age restricted units. Um, and so the minimum of maximums are there and we are proffering in addition to the rec center that is their, um, community, uh, pool for our, non additional community pool for, uh, our non age restricted residents and actually another amenity and pool, uh, for the for the additional, uh, so age restricted and non restricted. So two additional rec facilities are coming with this plan. And that's the swap out. So we moved, uh, the commercial, to the area closer to the industrial, uh, where shock is already delivered some buildings. It's further down Snowden, closer to 11. Um, and we work with with Shaki to deliver that. But but we both believe that it's more viable in this location as opposed to in the middle of the of the community as was originally planned. As we pointed out, we bonded, uh, so that that green section, um, is assured to the county. That's a major collector road. Um, and actually we've already started to build the, uh, the four lane sections at the top. If you all have been in there recently, you'll see that. And then again, the big circle on the right is the ability to put a non age restricted in that area. Come on, there we go. Um, there was a discussion, uh, community impacts, and we actually engaged or re engaged Dr Fuller. Um, as as you all may recall, Roger will actually did three. We did three impact analysis. We had two that we paid for, but they were engaged by the county because these were folks that only work for municipalities. They would not work for the private sector, and we went ahead and profit and pay. Uh, we paid for that. And then we engaged Robert Charles Lesser. There were two gentlemen. One is Mr Lynn Bogor ad, who unfortunately has passed away and Dr Fuller, who works for George Mason and is still with us. We actually asked him to look into what he wrote 21 years ago. How we doing and run an analysis of of what we're we're doing now. And it was interesting. His his first comment was, I was wrong. And that was and by the way, all three analyses were tax positive net tax positive to the county. His actually was the most conservative. The other two that only work for municipalities were much more to the positive, which was intriguing. Interesting to us. Fuller actually ran his numbers, assuming housing units selling in the 300 thousands. He was wrong. We, of course, have far exceeded. That and so the net of of what he has done looking at the breakdown of units, looking at the proffers, looking at this county certified, uh, audited financials and also, uh, other things that are that are actually available to the public. His report and we've provided this to the reviewing agencies. Uh, uh, is actually that the proffers that we are proposing to pay are more than sufficient to satisfy the county expenditures. And yes, including the schools. And I was instructed not to go too deeply into this, but you all do have a proffer model. Uh, it was last and we have a copy of it. It was written 2019. I understand that it gets adopted or readopted every year. But I would suggest to you that has lots happened since 2019 to today. Fuller's is is up to date and was just done for this proffer amendment. But one thing he pointed out, it was really interesting to us is that the proffer model plugs in all the costs at 100% that this county incurs and attributes some to to the residential, uh, uh, uses that are out there and the units that are out there and they include everything. Fire and rescue, sheriff schools, county administration all the way through. But what it does is it runs an assumption that your revenue from this community is your real property taxes and that's it. That's the only thing that's going to be paid to the black, to the black community. And that's it. That's the only thing that's going to be paid to the black, to the to the positive. And the other thing is the model that you all have assumes average real property taxes, average values of homes in this community. I'll submit that there's nothing average about Snowden Bridge and the prices of the units are well above average. But most importantly, real property taxes revenues for this county only amount to 30% of the total revenue of this county. And that's the average of the total revenue of this county. You actually receive obviously 100% and what is the other 70% and it's from personal property taxes, business taxes, sales taxes and so on. And those are actually paid by all of us that live and work here, including the folks that are going to occupy these homes. And so Dr Fuller has done an analysis of all the impacts. Not only the school facilities, he did plug in Frederick County Public Schools assumed school generation. And with the proffer amendment, what we're ending up with is an additional 85 students. And he also and somebody asked a question about, you know, what what how do we do this? And how does this work in terms of paying proffers under the new the new Virginia code? And that is that we need to look at the, the capital improvement budgets of the schools. And then we can pay offer proffers or voluntary. We can offer to pay those and we have and actually what Fuller's report shows is that at the $8,000 number, we satisfy the capital improvement planned improvements for the schools that in that we impact for those additional 85 unit. Our students should call them. Units. We went ahead and proffered the 15,000. We've had meetings with folks within the county. We've met with our supervisor. And so we proffered more than that. And and that is what is the end the the analysis that the doctor Fuller did. No, that's more of the same. And again, we, we went ahead and increased it to 15,000 per unit. Someone asked a question about the age restricted units and their impact by everybody's model. Whether you look at the counties or if you look at Fuller's is dramatically reduced because of course, they don't generate any school kids. And by the way, even you wouldn't be surprised. That's generally more than 50% of a county's expenditures every year. So if you take that off, the ledger, then those things are tremendously tax positive. And again, we've proffered a payment per unit anyway, and they are, they are paying accordingly. One other thing that came up. Oh, and the proffer amendment request. There was a there was a typo in terms of the triggers and the total. Uh, number of units. And we've corrected that. Um, impact, Matt, mitigation is at the 1726 unit as opposed to the 1766 unit. I think Tyler already told you that. And then the other change was there was a discussion about the community space. And that is an interesting one. We've met with, uh, Ms. McCann slaughter and also with staff about that. The purpose of that, we were actually thinking that we were going to be like Northern Virginia and that there were, uh, for each district, there's a board of supervisors office. And that's, that's where that came from. Um, that didn't happen. And, and I'm thinking, and we've had meetings with, uh, county staff, county administrator and, and Judy. And I don't think there's any interest. In doing that. Having said that, um, we did learn that there may be some need for a community space or maybe something that, uh, apparently there's a mobile unit that's, that's related to fire and rescue and it's a, a moving unit and it may need a home and a space. And so we're happy to, to leave that in the reason we had, uh, proffered to take it out is the initial, uh, comments that we got was we have no appetite. To take on and staff and pay for, uh, uh, an outside board of supervisors office. So that's, that's why we wrote it. But, but we're happy to, uh, to put that back in. Um, these are, this is G. I. S. These are the platted, uh, lots, uh, that we have today. There, there have been discussions about 37 and goodness knows, I remember 37. I remember in 91 we had options, a, b, c and d. And where do you want them to be? And and so on. And and it doesn't seem like a long time ago, but I guess it was, um, there is no money for, uh, this limited access road and to connect it in particular, uh, the slide that you had to connect it to 81. And I don't think the county is, is looking at that at all as, as a viable option. What they are looking at is a road network that will get us from seven, uh, up to 11 and 81. And we were in discussions with the county. Um, again, it's not a limited access, uh, thing with a huge right away and cloverleafs and so on. Uh, but there's nothing in our plan that's, that's going to restrict, uh, the various routes that are, that are being considered by the county. To get from seven, uh, up to 11. Actually, we're working on on the other end to to get from 37 up to 522. And the development community is working on that. Um, be happy to respond to any questions. And again, the team is here, and if there are any other comments or citizens comments, we'd be pleased to be able to respond to those. Thank you. Thank you, Mr Lawson. Uh, questions for Mr Lawson. Miss Brandon says, yes, she'd like to start the commercial property. And it makes sense to me to move it out and make it more viable. But why push when you're going to do it? Why not do it now? You know, thank you for bringing that up. Actually, um, meeting with with staff and and Ms McCann slaughter, um, we we've agreed to, uh, put a trigger in it right now. There's a trigger that gets extended by by 18 months plus the two years. And and there's an interesting conversation. We've got a timing thing and then we got a unit thing. And so, uh, we have agreed to tie it to a certain number of units and to give you an idea. We're, we're a little over 2400 units and staff very well pointed out that we want to make sure there's something that that doesn't allow you all to leave and and it doesn't get built. And so we've agreed to do a hard stop at that at the 2000th unit. And and so there's 465 left. And so it's got to be built before then. And again, our partner is, is Shockey and they're going to build it there. That's their, their, uh, commercial center. The other neat thing about it is, and actually this slide shows the lots that we've already plotted and that Snowden bridges were working at it from both ends. Snowden Bridge Boulevard. They wanted to make sure that there'd be enough units in there, uh, to to number one, see that Snowden Bridge is built so that there's access for this. Commercial property and also so that there's some, uh, residences around them. So that's also tied into it as triggers to assure that it's built. Okay. I have to question you on that because the whole point you said the moving it out is to get it access from the commercial. So you have access to it. You've admitted a lot of our income is from businesses. I want the commercial there. I don't want it. I put off like right now. It can be extended. It sounds like about three years, but I don't want it to go out six because I don't know who did your model, but every supervisor keeps saying houses are losing proposition for us. The commercial is a big deal. Um, as it stands, that we would submit based on our our building plan and what we've we've been able to deliver. I believe you're going to get it quicker. With the with the the hard stop at the 2000 number as opposed to going. We discussed both the months and years or or doing it tying it to the units. And so we've agreed and we've committed to tie it to the number of units. I will tell you we had discussions about doing, doing the the calendar hard stop as well. Um, but I think that's going to get it to you more quickly. And actually right now we're building Snowden Bridge, but the commercial it's not built yet. So as as the folks from Shockey pointed out, you can't really do commercial unless we have a road going to it, but we're diligently working on that and you can go out there and see it. Plus plus it's been bonded and as to the the commercial, I would agree with you that that does pay our taxes. But it's actually the people that go there and that purchase those items that that pay those taxes. And and those are the residents that are it's it's all of us that live in the community and and also those that are moving into the community. And and that's what Dr Fuller's report points out. Um, and I don't mean to say that the county's model doesn't point that out. It's just silent as to those. Tax revenues, but I would suspect that they would agree that the people that live here shop here, eat here, have businesses here, pay business taxes here and so on. Any other questions comments? Yes, Mr. McKay. Has there been any discussion on the type of commercial business that would be there has been grocery stores. We we don't foresee because of what's come. Um, there there was some discussion. Um, about some some uses that are that are harmonious with with the area. Uh, one that actually surprised me, but it makes some sense is is a a assisted living type facility would do well near the the the age restricted, uh, lower intensity shopping. Opportunities, not big boxes and things like that because of what's at Rutherford. Uh, but those uses that are not there. So service things, cleaners, uh, coffee shops, cafes. Um, I like to talk about Trader Joe's if we could get it. I put in a plug for that. Um, but but those kind of things we do not believe, though, that it's it's a big box. Um, but we do have a lot of things that we can do to help people. So, um, I think that's a great point. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, to my right. This goes out on that topic. Are you committed to instead of leaving it blanket, you know, B one districts to say we are not going to build X like a car wash or storage facilities. I mean, can we kind of dial it in a little bit? You'll appreciate Ms. McCann slaughter raise that point. Um, um, John, good. And great. Farlin. Do that. Um, just simply because they don't, they don't know. Uh, they're they're committed to building commercial. Uh, there was a discussion about and somebody brought it up of many storage and and we got a pretty strong. We don't do that from from the gentleman from Shockey. Um, but actually they were the ones that brought up the, uh, the assisted living. Uh, they did the, uh, H H hunt, um, Spring Arbor project on 50 just as a for example. Mr. Currens, could you speak just a little bit on the recreational amenities that were proffered? It sounds like they're they're not general public, right? They're just they would just be for the for the people that live there, right? Okay. Yeah. And I appreciate Tyler's comments on that because that one really threw me about we're not meeting the ordinance because, uh, the the recreational amenities and Snowden Bridge or, you know, out of the park that considerable improvements and I think his comment is looking at at what we're is affected by the proffer amendment. The timing of it or the trigger to deliver yet another pool and rec area for the non age restricted plus a separate one that is just for the age restricted. Uh, I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. Uh, you know, I think that's a great point. I think that the the age restricted folks there, there's an issue with the timing of it course. Everybody can use the the the main facility, the indoor tennis courts, the clubhouse, uh, the pool with the pirate ship and so on. That's that's still gonna when I say everyone, everyone within the community can use those. Okay. I was trying. I was trying to get at the county resident benefit versus just the people who live there. No, and, When we build a community, you do need to look at what's going to be the impact on public parks. And if you don't have your own recreational facilities or a large enough yard, there is an assumption that you're going to go to Sharando or Clearbrook or where have you to recreate. And the way Snowden was developed was we're going to take care of our folks and then some. And so that's what we did with all the walking trails, the 250 acres of open space. We actually are working with the Shenandoah Valley Battlefield Foundation to have a trail network that connects to their park as well. I mean, you can go for miles living in this community. And actually members of the public can do that as well. But for our pools and our tennis courts and our clubhouses, we're taking that burden off of the county. And they're going to, not to say they can't go to Sharando, they can. And if their kids are playing in Blue Ridge soccer or whatever, they're going to pay and use those fields. But it is the recreational requirements are being taken care of by the community. That's right. That's a good point. They do. They have endured tennis in there and we're happy to do that. Any other questions? Thank you, Mr. Wall. Thank you. I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah. Of course, Ty, you know. Yes, sir. You got to have a question. Get this mic on right. Just a little bit of the history. This probably was the longest. And hardest rezoning the county has ever had. I mean, I've been on the planning commission over 30 years. And as you said, this meeting lasted when we actually finally approved this. It lasted till 1 30 in the morning. And there were hundreds of people at the meeting. It was a very contentious meeting. And there were, I mean, six months of meetings before we have ever had the planning commission meeting. So this was a very hard. Discuss. I won't say fought, but very hard discussed contentious rezoning for the county. At that time, it was probably the biggest one that had been done before by that time. And there were a lot of discussions on how is this going to impact county taxpayers? How is this going to impact the other residents of the county? Now, there wasn't 90,000 residents in the county at that time. But where we are today. You know, we have. As you said, housing increases tax rates to everybody, not just people living in Snowden Bridge. So housing costs all of the taxpayers money in the county. When we start building houses and we don't have the impacts that are going to occur from building those houses taken care of. And we never have all the impacts taken care. Of. Because there's only by law, there's only certain things that the impact model can consider and can take care of. But when we're looking at 30% of our county budget comes from property taxes, we've got to make up the other 70% somehow. And that was always. The reason for the commercial development and for the age restricted housing, because age restricted housing doesn't have the burden on the rest of the county taxpayers that the commercial housing. Does or the housing with children. So you talked a little bit about the net tax impact and the net positive or the net zero. We talked. If you remember back in 2003, we talked a lot about how do we get to net zero impact on the county from this development because of all the housing being built. And that was a lot of discussions on how we got age restricted housing, how we got to commercial and the timing of the commercial. So when we start dialing those two differently than what was originally approved, we have messed up what we thought we were getting as age or the net tax impact to the county. Now, the recreational facilities are great. You know, we always want recreational facilities in the community, but those recreation facilities are going to affect eight or 10,000 people. You still have 80,000 other county residents that are going to be affected by the raising tax rates. So we're going to have to do a lot of work to get that to the county. So we're going to have to do a lot of work to get that to the county. So we're going to have to do a lot of work to get that to the county. So we're going to have to do a lot of work to get that to the county. The net income or the net profit to the developer was different than it is today. You can argue up or down, whatever, however you want to argue. But when we look back then, housing prices were probably looked at $250,000, maybe $300,000 a house. It's at least double and triple that today of what these houses are going to be sold for. So the ability. Or the reasonableness of what's being asked for the developer to contribute based on the impacts he's going to cause the other 80,000 people in Frederick County is not unreasonable. For him to come up and say, okay, the commercial needs to be built. It needs to be built in 36 months, not in six years or nine years. And I think the trigger should be if you don't build, you know, maybe 1,500 houses, between now and the rest of that 36 months, if you don't build the commercial in that 36 months, you don't build any more housing. And I think that needs to be, you need to relook at these proffers because the only person benefiting from this revised proffers and this revised zoning, or not zoning, but the revised proffers in this is the developer. The county and the county residents are not. We're. The county residents are taking it big time. And I think there needs to be some shared burden with a more shared burden with a developer and a county residents on this. It's this is all one way as far as I'm looking at it. And you can talk a lot and try to get me to convinced otherwise. But I look at this now. And I see this is all one way benefit. I think, you know, this was a very, you know, when we look back on it, this is a poor rezoning. I mean, at. At the date, you know, when we did it in 2003, $8000 in proffers were good. And I think the developer expected it to be built out by 2010, 2012, maximum 2015. Well, here we are. We're 20 years later and we're only half built out, maybe not even half built out. So, you know, I think at this point, we need to really look seriously at what we're doing. And yes, of course, you could come back and say, well, we're just going to pull this out. You're not going to get any profit changes or anything. That's certainly up to you. But, you know, I think, you know, to be reasonable and to be a developer that wants to fit into the community and be a good partner with the county taxpayers and pay their fair share. I think this needs to be really relooked at significantly. I don't think this is anywhere close in a. Phase that are in a condition that it. Could be looked at as being net zero. To the county to the county taxpayers. And the county doesn't have anything. It's the county taxpayers are the ones that are taking the burden. That's. My opinion. Mr. Chairman, can I try to briefly respond to that? Yes. Thank you. Roger, I, as always, appreciate your comments. And it was hard fought. And I'm assuming you're going back to the fun. We. Had with the industrial park before that. And this, of course, came after after that failed rezoning. It is very interesting. And I would I would come in to you because you you you study things and study them. Well, to look at the three reports that were done. Again, we paid for three. And it shocked me that the one that that we viewed as ours was actually. Showing a benefit a net tax benefit, but it was the lower benefit. The others were tens of millions. I mean, they were just off the charts numbers. And these were the folks that do work just for municipalities. But I submit there's there's something to that. And if you and I guess the best way to look at it is I always hear this that housing costs this money. I heard a supervisor say each residence costs. This county. It's like $26,000 a year. Well, actually, you can go to your caffer. And you can get the number of residential units that you have in this county. Multiply that by 26,000. When I do it, my calculator hits error. It's in the billions. Well, you don't spend billions of dollars a year. We're not insolvent. In fact. We do very well. We do very well. Financially. This county does. We have a net. Cash balance at the end of every year. That is our revenues and our expenditures. And I say that as a compliment. I mean, it's a very well run conservatively run county. And we have grown since 21. We've grown not only because of Snowden Bridge, but other communities where folks live. And I would suggest to you to the extent. You want to check the math and try to figure out how is it possible. It's because these folks and Dr. Fuller. I'll give you his updated report. Because I know you want to read it. These folks that come in pay these bills. And as we grow, they grow and what they pay grows. And I would just close with this. A model that says let's just look at the average. And what the average household pays. And assume that's your number. And don't assume any other revenue from that household. And that's to me kind of odd. Because that's assuming they don't have a car. Everybody has a car. You're going to pay personal property tax. We know there's going to be other revenues from those homes. And if you look at that, that's how it is that we're not insolvent. That's how it is that we are cash positive every year as a county. And we pay for our growing needs. And that's why those guys that did those reports 21 years ago were not wrong. And so they do. New growth does actually pay for itself and pays its burdens, if you will. And actually, the proof's in the pudding. This county is doing well as a result of those folks living here, paying here, having businesses here. Business taxes and so on. And so that's why we commissioned the report. And that's how we came up with these numbers. I agree with some things you're saying. But I've noticed in the last 21 years my property taxes and my personal property taxes have gone up significantly. So there is an increased tax burden that we end up having to pay. And we need more commercial. Our goal was always to get to 45, 55, 45 percent of the budget paid by property taxes, 55 percent paid by commercial or vice versa. I don't remember the exact. And I don't know where the $26,000 figure came from. I don't know either. I'd never heard that before. But we need to get closer to a net zero impact with the taxes. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Lawson. Thank you all. This is a public hearing. Anybody who would like to speak to this proffer amendment is certainly welcome to do so. I would ask you to come to the microphone. Give us your name, your magisterial district, and please limit your comments to three minutes. Would anyone like to speak? Yes, sir. Welcome. Welcome. Good evening. My name is Kenny Unger, Jr. Stonewall Magisterial District. I was born in Frederick County and attended Jameswood High School. My family is the one that owns the property boarding the south of the Stoughton Bridge development. And I also own and operate a business in Frederick County, Clearbrook Feed and Supply. Probably just going to reiterate some points that are already made, but I felt like if you could hear from maybe a person sitting on the outside looking in, some reasons I object to this revised plan. The big one I have is there's no provision for the Route 37 expansion. You know, it's been brought up that the developers to the west were required to include some property designated for 37. They may not be a right of way, but there are projects that allow for that possibility. Mr. Lawson called me Monday night because he knew of my objection to this. And to paraphrase what he said to me on the phone, I said, I don't know what you're talking about. I don't believe 37 will ever be built due to the cost. And I disagree. I don't see how the county can afford not to make it a priority right now. The traffic on Route 11 is already congested and long delays are experienced at certain times of the day. In 2003, at the time of the original approval, this was not a big concern. The traffic flow is very different today. And you as the current leaders have an opportunity to do that. And you as the current leaders have an opportunity to correct this matter at hand. If you look at the county map, and it's been brought up also, Route 37, as it's on the map, county map is slated to go right through where infrastructure, construction is being done as we now speak. Based on the impact model, based on my numbers, the developers asked the county to take a $1.2 million deficit against the proffer being offered. And I believe that's 240 times 5,300. I think we learned, if I'm correct, that won't even kick in for another seven years. So we're setting a proffer today at 15,000, or what they're proposing. And what is it going to be seven years from when we get to that housing number? As we saw the 70-some hundred back in 2003 compared to what it is now, it's astronomical. And we're going to have to get that number out there. It's astronomical. Our schools are currently running at or over capacity. I read where their experts said 85 children will be generated from these 240 multi-age housing projects. I went to Virginia Tech, but that only means one out of every three homes will have one child attending the school. I find that very, very hard to believe. This seems unrealistic. It would be curious to know the number of children from the first development phase. Per average per household in the multi-age housing there. This is me speaking personally. The revision to delay the commercial development appears to be another tactic for the economic gain that was mentioned with no regard to the county's needs. Sitting there, we're looking at the map. My wife and I discussed... if residents of Snowdon Bridge, if they don't move it's going to have to drive by it every day. It's going to be a challenge. drive by it every day so is that part of their move why they want to move the commercial to the far end instead of being in the middle of the development in the original plan snowden bridge was a community is what it was called designed to provide shopping restaurants and businesses for its members the developer should be held to that 2003 requirement to provide these much needed services i know it's been brought up about the martins and the rutherford crossing that's created nothing but more traffic we i thought this was supposed to be a community where they could stay within the community and then not create this additional traffic problem the county office again i'm a businessman but i looked at it and i did some phone calls that's actually the county's forfeit and thirty two thousand five hundred dollars worth of rent in today's market of office space for 10 years that's three hundred some thousand bucks that the county would lose by by them removing their uh office space i've got some personal experience with this developer their priorities are profitability and high rates of return uh this model that they are proposing to will have a negative impact a negative economic impact and doesn't support the financial wellness of frederick county in conclusion i think it's very clear the developer has their own interest at heart the snowden bridge community should be a positive impact on frederick county not a negative one negative one you as the leaders you have the power to challenge this company's intentions and serve the citizens that helped build frederick county one last comment the 1.19 million billion dollars contributed to the local economy does that mean every sub every supplier came from frederick county or did it come from the outside and so it put it put money somewhere else as a local businessman robbie shaking his head too he understands uh about keeping the money in the county versus coming from somewhere outside again thank you thank you mr hunger would anyone else like to speak to this matter seeing none i'll close the public hearing mr lawson would you like to respond i'm not done just briefly i appreciate seeing mr hunger and and i did have a uh... talk with him but i i thirty seven as it was originally designed as is began going back to ninety one is not viable uh... mister pearson has talked about the county and staff are working on on different routes to get to get folks from from the main arteries seven in this case up to eleven and eighty one and again i'll stand by what i said before they were were proposing does not get to get folks from from the main arteries seven in this case up to eleven and eighty one and again i'll stand by what i said before they were were proposing does not proposing does not interfere with that can't get back to it but there was a slide that showed going uh... to the north and the west and then a uh... connection to eighty one that that is not in in anyone's plans and the cost is is staggering i mean it uh... we we just there's not enough money out there to do that unfortunately uh... but other than that we appreciate your recommendation and i appreciate your comment on that and again, if you have questions, we're happy to respond. Thank you, sir. Mr. Klein? Mr. Chairman Newton? Can you give us a staff summary, please, of what we've heard this evening? Sure. By the way, for our commissioners, this is one of the items our bylaws spell out that we are supposed to conduct with public hearings, so this gives the staff an opportunity to congeal down everything we've heard and discussed this evening. If you agree, I'd like to quickly just address some of the comments as it relates to the model and the fuller report, and then turn it over to Mr. Klein for exactly what you asked for. Is that appropriate, sir? Please do. Yes, sir. I think Mr. Lawson laid out some elements of our model that are not necessarily available and readily available for the public to consume and understand, and that's namely how it considers taxation, awarding, or, frankly, any other revenue sources. And what I want to communicate to the Planning Commission is it simply does not, not real estate, not personal property tax, not anything, because the model is not predicated on the long-term fiscal benefit that the county is going to derive from residential development. It's predicated on the immediate capital impact that the county experiences from new residential construction. So there was this conversation about a $26,000 figure mentioned by a Board of Supervisors member. That is the full capital impact. That's felt by the county for new residential construction. And while Mr. Lawson's client's development may, over time, prove to be fiscally beneficial, in the immediate circumstance when the house is constructed and occupied, they're not paying taxes leading up to that, and they're not going to be paying taxes that may offset their impact for a number of years. But the schools in that area are currently overcrowded, and the county needs to do something about it. And that's really the fundamental... The fundamental basis of the proffer law that's important to understand is it's not talking at all about the long-term benefits of residential development. It's what the county feels the moment it's occupied and what it needs to do to address that. And in some respects, that's why the law is somewhat fair in that if the schools aren't over capacity, it doesn't require developers to pay anything. Because if there's capacity in the schools, there is not an immediate impact felt by the county when those houses are occupied. And in conclusion, I was provided a full copy of the fuller report for the first time while I was eating dinner this evening. The Planning Commission has not benefited from reading any elements of that other than what was captured in the applicant's impact study in short form. So I think any consideration as it relates to that is certainly going to have to be a future conversation for the Planning Commission. And I'll turn it over to Mr. Klein to summarize the rest. Before you do that, I'd like to ask a question, Mr. Chairman. Okay. The capital improvements model only discusses capital costs. When we start talking about property taxes don't pay their part of the capital cost until years down the road, that's because property taxes are intended to pay the annual operation and maintenance costs, the costs of teachers, and that. So do we ever get to a point where property taxes actually pay their burden on the county? No. Because we never, there is never a consideration of the O&M costs that are incurred every year that that school's in operation, every year that the county staff, the fire staff, and everybody's in operation. It only accounts for capital costs, which are initial construction costs. It doesn't include the O&M burden that is forever once you build that school. Yeah. And credit work. Credit is due. There's certainly a conversation to be had as offered by Mr. Lawson and his client as it relates to the net fiscal relationship between residential development and this county. You mentioned some figures that have largely been quoted in the county where I think people view that a house has to be worth like $700,000 to be fiscally positive in the community. A lot of that was predicated on old taxation structures. Namely, the biggest thing that's changed, in recent years, was the Wayfair decision at the Supreme Court level where e-commerce sales are now taxed at the individual residents. Previously, that money would have been generated where Amazon was headquartered. But now when you buy something on Amazon, the sales tax goes to locality in which you're purchasing it on. So there is a broader discussion to be had about operation and maintenance costs and residential development and whether it's fiscally positive or not. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. That's not what we're talking about when we're talking about capital impacts, in any sense of the word. There's a case to be made there, and I think it's a fair argument that certainly can be made, and Stonebridge is probably a good example of a community that largely could make that case. But it doesn't matter. It's not the context that we're discussing. We're talking about immediate capital impacts and immediate needs for facilities that are overcrowded and need to be expanded to accommodate new residential development. Absent cash profits for that, you are correct in asserting that that burden then falls to the taxpayer as it relates to the other revenue sources that we can collect dollars from. Does that at all address kind of what you're asking about? Thank you, yes. I just wanted to make sure the developer didn't try to provide a nexus that because of the future property taxes they were going to be paying that they didn't have to pay as much capital costs now. Thank you Mr. Pearson. Mr. Klein. So you all endured a very lengthy discussion about the changes before you this evening and staff would reiterate that the changes before you are to the proffer statement and the generalized development plan. It includes modifications to the uses density and mix of housing types to enable a new maximum non age-restricted amount of homes and to reduce the amount of age restricted homes that potentially could be built in the development. It has included a revision to their capital impact and and and I think that's a very important contribution that they would make per unit commencing with the 1766 or 1725 unit that number has changed on us this afternoon and apologies for the discrepancy. The applicant is proposing a $15,000 contribution and our capital impact model shows a contribution of anywhere from $19,000 to $20,000 depending on the unit type. They've made a modification to their recreational amenities and linear parks proffer to include an additional recreational amenity in the form of a pool which is to the benefit of the residents of the non age-restricted portion of Snowden Bridge and Stevenson Village. They have made a significant modification to the commercial center proffer to revise the location of that amenity from centrally located within the site to the westernmost boundary of the development. They have removed the minimum requirement of 60,000 square feet from that proffer and they have modified the timing of when that commercial center would be developed. Again the applicant has spoke to a change that they have made today to that proffer and they have modified the timing of when that commercial center would be developed. Again the applicant has spoke to a change that they have made today to that proffer that staff has not had time to discuss internally and or provide specific comment on and finally they have deleted as currently proposed the Renfrew County office space proffer in their entirety. Again the applicant spoke to a potential change this evening to that but staff has not had the opportunity to discuss that internally or to provide a comment on the remarks made by Mr. Lawson. This was a public hearing item and staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors at this time and of course we're happy to answer any other questions that you have and thank you for your consideration this evening. Thank you Mr. Klein. Mrs. Stonewall, gentlemen do you have any comments, concerns that you want to... I think we've had very good conversation. I think everything has been very relevant that has been brought up. I think all the concerns have been very relevant. They are all, they match my concerns that I had already developed before and I appreciate that. I appreciate Mr. Lawson's comments and all of his information but I think there is definitely room for improvement of the proffers that have been offered at this point and to discuss this a little bit further and give some additional time for this. So I don't have anything additional to add to all the comments that have been made but I think it's relevant and I think it's prudent to table this probably for 30 years. Thank you. Okay, is that a motion? Not yet. I was getting a lot of conversation. Mr. Dehaven, thoughts? I echo Mr. Kern's thoughts. I think looking at the capital cost with the change that the current proffer package has proposed, the amendment doesn't fully offset that. I think there's some opportunity for some increase there and if it was something the applicant would have been interested in looking at and addressing, I'd certainly support Mr. Kern's tabling of 30 days. Thank you. Any other comments? Mr. Akins? Personally, I'm not concerned about the change of the, from age restricted to the market rate or single family residences. I can't get behind shorting the capital costs. I mean nothing can, if our model is to be a is or is not flawed, I can't support something that doesn't get behind what the county has already approved. I think we're setting a really bad precedence if we do. And the, regarding the commercial, it's a hard market. It's a hard market in the commercial. That's what I do. But it was agreed upon. It shouldn't. I agree with you, Roger. In regards to the net zero, who knows if it's net zero. That's a conversation for another day and someone probably a lot smarter than me. But the 60,000 should stay. It shouldn't be stricken from the proffer. And in my opinion, the timeline shouldn't change. Very good. Thank you. Anyone else? I'll come back to you. Comments? Discussion? Well, thank you. I do want to make some comments, but can I ask Jason a question? Is that okay? Yes. Since you're in commercial, is moving it to the outside, would that make it more likely to make it? It all depends on the end use, in my opinion. I mean, if they talked about, which as a planning commissioner, I would not be in favor really of a nursing home or something like that, because that's going to drain more on the emergency services. But from a developer, heck yeah, let's knock it out of the park. Let's do a nursing home or something like that. The placement of it really just depends on the end use. I mean, some of the commissioners, maybe some board of supervisors are downing the storage units. I mean, you have a lot of houses there. I think what was envisioned back in 2000, I think it was the first thing that was envisioned. I think it was the first thing that was envisioned. Back in 2003 was, you know what, we want to try to keep the traffic within the development. Okay? Well, people need storage units. Do they need 60,000 square feet of it? Probably not. But you know what, some there and a nice mix would probably work. Where it's at really depends on what's made. Thank you. Any other comments, discussion, points? I do. I wanted to hear from Jason. I... I do not think we should accept any reasoning that goes lower than what the projected cost is supposed to be. That's... I mean, right now, we're... My understanding is we're looking at an increase of 18 to 36% property taxes. And as I door-knocked before, I've already met people that have lost their home and are now in trailers. I understand we're going to grow, but not on the backs of the... I understand we're going to grow, but not on the backs of the citizens that have been here for generations. I do not think the timetable should be turned back because... I think you've noticed from my voting, I am for small businesses. I'm for commercial. We need tax income. And I don't want to get the tax burden and not have the tax income. I'll leave it to them on if it should be inside or outside because I don't... I want businesses to work. I want businesses to work. I want businesses to, you know, work in a way that they can... It can get built wherever they want to build it now. And so, I wouldn't change that. I agree with Jason. I'm not the big bug on the 55 and over communities for the short-term to save money on schools. Because the bottom line, a healthy community that's not all over the roads... We don't want all retirement. You know, we need workers. We need businesses. So I have no problem with moving from 55 and over to the, whatever the term was, but they do need to, in my opinion, pay the impact for the schools. Thank you. Mr. Markert. I just wanna say I agree with Roger's sequelae. Sequelae? Sequelae? Sequelae? I'm not sure. I agree with Roger. Yes, sir. I think there's been a lot of great comments and I agree with everything that's been said. And I just, I know this isn't a rezoning, but this has sat around for 20 plus years now. And I think the developer stands to probably, and I'm not against, people making money. I think that's capitalism. That's what we do. We want them to make money. But I think they should be willing to share some of that and reduce some of the burden on county taxpayers that this is gonna cause. And the basic proffer of $8,000 a unit to go from 1,200 to 1,700 units, where already the county is losing big time money there. If you wanted to turn around and say, okay, we're gonna start to proffer at the 1,200, 1,200, 1,236 unit or whatever it is now, I think that would be great because you're not gonna incur the 60 or $70,000 a year rent for the county that you were gonna have to give free for the county space that you were gonna provide free. So that now, that space is available for you to do something else with. And I think that 60,000 commercial real estate you have there would be great to have filled with small businesses that are all from Frederick County. And we don't need a big box store there. We need a lot of small businesses that employ people. I think the new layout is an improvement over the old layout. I think having it at the edge, I think the reason it was in the center because it was intended to be a support to community type thing. But I like the new layout. I just think the timing of the commercial and the proffers are a problem. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, gentlemen, Stonewall. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a motion to table rezoning number 03-24 for 30 days in order for the applicant to address the following items. The proffers per unit after the trigger to meet the county's capital impact model calculations. Also increasing the proffer of the units leading up to the trigger of the 1766 currently. Also reducing the trigger timeframe for the commercial development and possibly restricting allowed uses if possible. And then finally, actually addressing the proffered county office space. There's been a motion. Is there a second? Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second. Is there any additional discussion? I don't know. Hearing none, Ms. Brannon. Ms. Brannon, yes. Aye. Brombeck, yes. McKay, yes. Moulton, yes. Moulton, yes. Markert, yes. Thomas, yes. Kozo, yes. Kern, yes. DeHaven, yes. Akins, yes. Chair votes yes and the motion carries. Mr. Lawson, we've been very successful working together on previous projects and we look forward to continuing to work with you on this one. I do want to let you know the bylaws that we have require us to have any, you know, any information about this. modification is eight days before our meeting or it would result in a 45-day tabling by us so I wanted to make you aware of that thank you very much okay with that we have discussion informational items since our next item on our agenda this will be an ordinance amendment for religious organizations national chartered fraternal lodges or civic groups social centers and their related club facilities mrs. Bella Quinn good evening thank you mr. chairman and members of the Commission so this ordinance amendment proposal is just for information and discussion tonight this proposal would amend the zoning ordinance to change the term church to place of worship throughout the ordinance no changes are proposed to the definition which is buildings or structures primarily intended for the conduct of organized religious services and associated accessory uses so given that that definition is fairly broad updating the term from church to place of worship it helps better meet the intent of the definition this amendment would also add a permitted use to the rural area zoning district or our nationally chartered fraternal lodges or civic clubs social centers and their related club facilities currently this is listed as a conditional use for quello and additional place we will just be moving those from them the rp Alexandre uses list to the additional regulations for specific uses section and no changes are proposed to the existing additional regulations the regulations are listed on the screen here mainly stating that principal activities shall take place entirely within an enclosed structure outdoor facilities shall be incidental to the principal facility or activity and finally that no activities shall be conducted less than 30 feet from any residential district or an area within other districts which are predominantly residential in nature so DRRC met on March 28th to discuss this item they were supportive of updating the terminology from church to place of worship and the DRRC recommended that nationally chartered fraternal lodges civic clubs and social centers be added as a conditional use in RA rather than as a permitted use to be consistent with RP and also to help mitigate any potential impacts that may come so staff is seeking comments tonight from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors on this proposed ordinance amendment and also specifically on if the Planning Commission would like to see the fraternal lodges use be recommended as a conditional use or as a permitted use in RA that's all I have for tonight happy to answer any questions any comments questions Mr. Kearns thank you very much just quick question for you the fraternal lodges civic clubs and social centers is there any sort of it says principal activities need to be held inside does it say anything about events or special events or anything or any restriction on that so I'm not sure if I can answer that question but I'm just wondering if there is any kind of a question that you would like to ask the Board of Supervisors on this matter I suppose that would mean that just any like outdoor facilities and outdoor activities would simply have to follow the 30 feet rule but primary activities should take place in an enclosed structure that's how I am interpreting it would this be subject to a noise ordinance in RA there is a noise ordinance in RA there is a noise ordinance no no noise ordinance so not in RA Mr. Thomas and I think certainly church the word church needs to be changed because there's a whole bunch of other things that fall into that but place of worship how do we define that I mean if we have somebody that wants to worship the sun god is that a place of worship so I don't know if we need to I mean this is a really hard thing to define and to kind of put into a box that one that concerns me a little bit I mean you know if we go back to what was it out in or not it was Wisconsin or one of the states where they had somebody put up a satanic Christmas tree that caused a bit of a problem so if we had Satan worshippers would that be allowed so I don't know how we put that more in a box but I would all in my other part of my comment since it's just comments I really hate to see us to add something more to conditional use permits I think that should fraternal organizations in the district should just be a buy right and not have to come back for conditional use permits thank you comments I went back and looked at our building codes and and don't know I like the term churches because the IRS still uses churches and adds confusion but I also understand the concern but looking at the building code I can give you the numbers twice we have places of worship and twice we have places of religious worship so we should at least get a consistent term and have it through I can give you the numbers of the ordinances that I found to make it easier but okay be consistent I disagree with Roger I think the social club should be a CUP because I've looked back at the NICS codes and then the SIC codes and it just opens a can of worm gentlemen clubs fraternities sororities you know if unless we're going to specifically limit it to that type you know with Shenandoah growing I don't want to see a bunch of frat houses in neighborhoods and you know I don't want to see student unions so unless I mean there is a category that would limit it to those to those but the wording's not quite the same so I'm just concerned about that and I would like to keep it a conditional use when I see all the things that could go there I don't want them there and I'll turn them down So okay but this moves them to the RA not to RP well the RA RP it's already a conditional use yes like Right now they're not allowed in the RA so we're going from they're not allowed to, they can be anywhere, anywhere, we're not gonna ask and given what falls under social, I think we need to be careful and not just give them all unless you're gonna limit to whoever it is who wants to build something in RA and doesn't wanna get a CUP. That you can only build this thing. Currently in RP, it is a conditional use and RA was not in the list anywhere so it just couldn't be done. There are a number of organizations out there in RA that likely predate the ordinance. Yeah, so either a conditional. Yeah, I mean some of them are innocent, first book dispatch clubs, booster clubs, but some of them are no thank you anywhere. Thank you. As I give you what you need, Mrs. Pelliquin. Mr. Chairman, it might be helpful since there's been conflicting opinions expressed by planning commissioners as it relates to whether or not a conditional use would be appropriate in the RA if the commission can provide some consensus guidance. Otherwise, we just won't convey a recommendation from the planning commission to the board as it relates to whether it's appropriate as by right or a CUP. So I just wanna make that clear since we have conflicting opinions, we'll either not convey anything or if you all wanted to try to form a consensus on it, we can convey whatever that is. Very well, we can do that. So what we're looking for is consensus on whether a CUP is needed for these items in the RA district. Mr. Kern. I was just gonna, she just walked away, I was gonna ask if we could see what the recommendation was again from the committee. I'm sorry, I got you as you, you were getting back to your seat. She almost made it. Okay, I just wanted to see the verbiage up there, just maybe that would help us. If we could just follow that verbiage. Oh. Oh no. The DRC. So they recommended that it be a conditional use for a couple of reasons. One was that it's consistent with the RP zoning district as it's currently a conditional use in RP. Another one was that these organizations may have events on weeknights or other times, not just weekends. And so, adding it as a conditional use would, you'd be able to tailor it and put conditions on each application. And then, I believe those are the main reasons why they wanted, oh they also were kind of comparing it to a humanitarian aid organization, which is also a conditional use in RA. So they felt that a conditional use in RA would be appropriate for this use. You care to add anything? Thank you. Okay. She basically, yeah. Okay. I mean, we did fund that CUP, because leaving it as nothing, leaving it open was not, not gonna benefit anybody. I'm inclined to take the DRC's recommendation. Okay, so we're looking for a consensus on CUP in the RA district for the uses that Ms. Pelton has described. Mr. Aiken? Mr. Chairman, are you looking for a motion? No, I'm looking for a consensus. Thumbs up, thumb down. We don't need a motion at this point. We just need a head nod. Are you in agreement? So, Mr. Aiken's, all right, we'll go down the line. Mr. Aiken's gives a thumb up. I would support the requirement to be a CUP in RA. Correct. We're good. Yeah, the DRC recommendation. Yep. Same. Okay, Mr. Thomas? You've heard me. I hate to go against the DRC's recommendation, but CUP's are just, I dislike CUP's. I do too. So. Mark? I agree. I agree. Agree. Agree. There's your consensus, sir. Great, thank you. Chair agrees as well. Thank you very much. Next item, 7B, Ordinance Amendment, Conference Event Centers, Data Center, Solid Waste Collections, Material Recovery Facilities. Mrs. Feltner, good evening. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Planning Commission. These items are for information and discussion. I have a number of proposed ordinance amendments for you this afternoon. One change may affect multiple zoning districts and the change may affect only a single ordinance section. The proposal, these proposals are for, wrong slide. Yeah. I'm sorry. I am so sorry. I'm sorry. These proposals are for definition changes. They're located in Article 1, Part 101 of the ordinance. We are correcting the spelling of Country General Stores. Country General Stores are permitted in the RA District and must comply with the Supplementary Use Regulations. The next one was the change of caliper. We changed the definition of caliper in place in the Journal PlayStation proxy code. This is because the standard domestic was modified. The NAICS811 combines general and specialized repairs into one です group. This includes the use of the non-blind service unit Operation Corigmatization Sandbag's into one group known as automotive repair and maintenance the public garage definition was modified to remove the exclusion of spray painting body or fender repair the definition for body repair garage was removed a public garage is permitted in the RA district and the majority of the CEP s allowed for the cup allow for the combination of both of these activities this proposal adds conference and event center as defined in the ordinance to the b2 and the b3 zoning district the NAICS has two areas that the conference and event centers may be placed this is based on whether food services are provided they either fell in 531 without food services or 722 with food services conference centers previously were permitted and are currently permitted and they're in the amusement arts gambling and recreation this amendment is for conference and events center definition permits standalone operation or operations inside a hotel and motel and are specifically with or without food it covers both this proposal was for clarity and consistency and it only affects the b2 and the b3 zoning district this next proposal is a proposal that focuses on the additional addition of language for data centers we data centers data processing and computer infrastructure the data centers are to be in the b2 b3 m1 and TM zoning districts data centers are permitted in the ordinance or were permitted in the ordinance under the SIC the conversion place data centers under a telecommunications umbrella and this similar or similar term has been mentioned in work in on the within the pre Mental Health Commission supports again this approval automatically see mentre I believe we really touched upon this does sickness Information Development 2015 are made is specifically based on what we gonna most drum it up and use PIN address exercises that are only available for between 200 and obajan may includeUDAS HM K the is zoning district is unclear and this seeks to clarify this next proposal is a proposal to add commercial sporting and recreational clubs to the b2 zoning district commercial sporting and recreational clubs were a permitted use prior to the NAICS conversion the ordinance provides a more detailed definition and defines commercial sport and recreation as a public or private fee supported recreational facility located indoors or outdoors that may include swimming pools or other activities I think I was one slide off I apologize again the sport and recreational club was inadvertently admitted from the b2 zoning district commercial sporting and recreational clubs are being re-added for consistency and clarity in the b2 zoning district this next proposal is a proposal to re-add continuing care retirement community CCR sees to the MS zoning district CCR sees are inadvertently removed and placed into the new ambulatory health care services hospitals and nursing facilities however CCR's has a definite definition that's explicit the definition specifically details a housing development on one parcel of land for housing of older persons CCR sees residents move from one level to another of housing and do not and they do not contain individual parcels and they may not include condominium options it's one parcel owned by one entity that offers rent options CCRs were inadvertently removed from the MS district and where they're being re-added for consistency and clarity to the MS zoning district this proposal addresses M M one zoning districts and waste management in one zoning districts list waste management and remediation services but it limited it to glass cardboard plastic recyclables it inadvertently left out metal recycling the proposal is to reword the term to solid waste collection material recovery facilities septic tank and related services and other waste management services solid waste encompasses mixed recyclable materials and excludes any hazardous material material recovery allows for sorting of non hazardous recyclable materials septic tanks and other miscellaneous addresses the septic tank and boiler cleaning services previously and currently allowed in the M one zoning district you solid waste collection and material recovery facilities septic and rated services and other waste services were added to the M one zoning district for consistency and clarity this proposal limits recreational facilities to indoor use only in the M one zoning district recreational facilities were permitted in the M one but were limited to indoor operations only probably the additional regulations for specific uses applied to indoor recreational facilities in the M one zoning district it's currently listed as fitness and recreational sports centers without designation of indoor only so we want to rewording to commercial recreation indoor is defined including fitness and recreational sports centers it re-establishes this requirement by reference the clarification and consistency apply to m1 zoning district only this proposal removes 15,000 square foot limitation of permitted grocery store I'm sorry this proposal remove it removes the 15,000 square foot limitation of permitted grocery stores and relocates it to a more appropriate use the more appropriate section which is the use and regulation sections of the zoning ordinance this is an effort to conform with traditional zoning ordinance format the square footage limitation was removed from the b1 district use table and relocated to the special use and regulation section of the zoning ordinance by relocating the square footage limitation permitted for the grocery stores in the b1 this restriction was incorporated with the existing grocery store limitation specifically addressing the b3 zoning district for grocery stores section 165 204 was then altered to include the b1 and a new section 204 0.37 was created to limit drug stores health stores and personal care stores to as well as publicBLE shelters this changes moisturecolors to filling depending on the area and whether they want to be fit inside all of those Mamanias ofson ofson two Wohns indicated in tenta Eggman founded the zoning ordinance in September 2011 looking at 15,000 square feet in the b1 area Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. Thank you very much. Ms. Cozell, do you care to comment on anything? I go to Ms. Cozell, by the way. She's the chairman of our DRRC committee, and Mr. Kern next to her is her vice chairman. So that's why I go to her. I have no additional comment. I mean, we recommended to bring it to the board. Okay. Thank you. Any comments or questions? My only question, this is all staff-led, right? There's no, like, current applicants that are driving any of these changes? This is just cleaning up? This is cleaning up. Okay. Thank you. Anything else? Ms. Brannon? You know, we did comment in the DRRC. I know the data centers were mistakenly left out of B2, but... At least a couple of us do not believe they belong in B2 at all, that there needs to be more of a buffer from the houses. So I understand why you want to do this, because it was a mistake. But I think it was a good mistake. So I would leave it there and not... Because my husband used to do these things, and when you put them in B2, you greatly increase the property values, which, okay, we can say great on taxes, but that means small businesses. Can't ever go in there anymore. And they're a constant hum. So to give them a buffer away, I'm fine with the B3 in-out, but I do not think a data center belongs in B2. Only if the commission wants to offer a proposed modification, or otherwise. So I would leave it there. I think it applies to the proposal as it's been structured. Excuse me. Are there any modification proposals? I would think we'd want to stick with the DRRC recommendations. Okay. It appears we go forward with that as planned. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. spend hours with you explaining the contents of what he's about to share. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know about hours, but I'll try to put the brief in briefing for you all. I know it's already been a long night. So for your 2023 Urban Development Area Report, which was provided to you all recently, let's go over some of the specific numbers from it. It's at the very bottom of the slide, but really the most important number is that 12,249, and that's our approved, planned, or potential residential lots and units. As you step down from the top of the page to the bottom, you're structuring how you build that number. So a vacant land with 5,392, that's essentially by-right historical zoning that exists in the county since we adopted zoning, so there's no proffers on it, no GDPs or anything. And then as you progress down that list, you get to a finer level of detail and a finer expectation as to how that property might develop, because there was a rezoning that proffered a GDP, or like you saw with Snowden, some amount of unit mix that defined what they could build as part of their proffers. And then your current status, residential subdivisions under development, is those that are currently platted and pulling down lots and constructing homes as they progress. So we've got a really firm idea of how many units are going to be built in those. So that compromises that large number, and that really structures what we've referred to as your housing pipeline. So I've expressed to Mr. Stone and others in different contexts that while there's concern from the community, about approved entitled residential, it is of a material benefit to the county to have a housing pipeline and an entitlement bank to ensure that when you have housing needs pressing on the market for housing in the community, that you don't have to go and quickly rezone property to then accommodate developers about where they should be putting it. So you should keep a healthy reserve of approved housing that's ready to be constructed at any given time. Some of the kind of noteworthy information, I think, is that we have a lot of people who are interested in building housing, and I think that's a really important thing that we're working on. So I think that's a really important thing that we're working on. Some of the kind of noteworthy information, I think, is that we're working on. One of the differences from this report that I'd offer for your all's consideration is it is not inclusive of the developments within the incorporated towns of Stephen City and Middletown. There's active construction occurring that you can see from Route 11 in both of those, but no, these numbers don't reflect that. The same applies to Shawnee Land, Mountain Falls, and Lake Holiday, our five districts in the western portion of the county. Safe to assume there's about 5,500 vacant lots out there, but those aren't going to develop as that because there are limitations Safe to assume there's about 5,500 vacant lots out there, but those aren't going to develop as that because there are limitations on the development of the housing. and the availability of water and sewer in those areas. Assumptions that drive a lot of this information, we've got a couple members on this planning commission who are in the development community and have done projects before, and you know when I estimate density for your piece of property, it's not necessarily taken into account what you might run into when you go to develop it. Very rarely do people build out at their full estimated density because of stormwater management regulations, topography, or otherwise. So it's fair to say that... It's a conservative estimate on the high side of what could be expected as far as entitlements are concerned. We keep this report up to date and have for a number of years, and I think some of the data is well represented to show you how it's progressed over the years, and this is one example of that. So new residential building permits that were pulled in an annual basis here. As you can see, we're at a high point for last year. And actually, if... The first three to four months of this calendar year or any indication will be even higher than that if the trend continues. I mean, we only have less than half a data set right now, but we could be as high as 1,300 if it continues pacing as it has so far this year. This is a breakdown for residential building permits by housing type. As you will notice, our single-family detached color makes up the vast majority of the housing that's constructed in the community. As an advocate for urbanism, I think a variety of housing types in our community would be beneficial to continue to encourage to occur. Single-family detached certainly does meet a certain element of individuals looking for housing, but what's being constructed in the county is often priced at a rate that is not affordable for the jobs that can be retained in the county, and the best way to combat that is through permitting density. So to just briefly show you where some of this development's occurring, we've got three... maps. We just talked about Snowden Bridge, so we're in the northeastern portion of the county. City of Winchester is just to the south of this portion of the map. I'm sorry, the pink is... this is an older map that we used to show some hot spots for industrial prospects that we had discussed projects with in the Northeast Land Use Plan. There's Opec and Cross, right off Route 7, Abrams Point, which is finishing up, Oryx Commons that's underway. You've got Route 50 right here for reference, Cincinnati Road. And Valley Mill Road. Cincy Village is actively under construction with Lennar Homes. Another industrial project at One Logistics. The Ravens is finishing up, and Madison Village is continuing to build apartments and townhouses on their approved project. And then as you transition to kind of the far southeast portion of the county, Lake Frederick has been very active in recent years in developing a lot of units, and the other noteworthy project is Fairfax Downs, which is adjacent to um, Sharando High School. It's currently in the middle of the county. It's currently a TDR project that's working on their platting as well. A couple closing points as it relates to this is, one benefit that I think is derived from your urban development area policy is, it has had the effect of focusing a lot of your residential development to occur in the UDA, which is a land use planning goal of your comprehensive plan and your board of supervisors to prevent that residential development from bleeding out into your rural areas and resulting in the loss of farmland and large tracts of rural land. Um, it's noteworthy to say that about 4,305 of that 12,000 number are for age-restricted communities. So as you consider future age-restricted applications, just know of your entitlement bank, a significant portion is already identified as age-restricted. Um, and then as I mentioned before, nearly half or just less than that, um, is 5,392 potential units. Um, and then as I mentioned before, nearly half or just less than that, um, is 5,392 potential units. um, and then as I mentioned before, nearly half or just less than that, um, is 5,392 potential units. that really have no bearing on any decision the board has ever made, but were historically zoned when we adopted zoning in 1967. So these are legacy projects that don't have proffers on them, but if built out at their allowed permitted density, could achieve that total potential units. Um, and that's certainly noteworthy. Just some other trends that we've mentioned in other presentations we've given on this topic. Um, National Home Builders, as you are well aware, are very prevalent in the market right now and have largely, um, purchased up the remaining entitlements that exist and started construction on many of them. We're seeing a lot of pressure from super convenience. I joke with some of my planners that Wawa has us cornered on all four sides and maybe five sides at this point with projects that they're working on. Car washes and self storage have been popping up everywhere, but frankly, from how the site plans have slowed down, I think it's fair to say they might have hit market saturation. We aren't seeing a lot of activity in that respect like we used to in the previous two years or so. Warehousing distribution is still a competitive advantage based on our location, and we talked to industrial clients about that very often. And then you all have recently seen some telecom towers. Um, there's changes occurring in the electrical infrastructure requirements for some of the major transmission lines. That's forcing some of the telecom providers off of the electric lines, and they're going to be coming for more condition to use permits to locate new towers in our community as we continue on. Happy to answer any questions, Mr. Chairman, that you might have on it. Thank you for the opportunity to present this data to the Commission. Thank you very much. Any questions? Yes, sir. Mr. Thomas. I know we have to walk the tightrope of having the housing supply to meet the demand, but the discussion tonight pointed out one of the problems we have when we have old rezonings, and we have a lot of rezonings that have no proffers attached. But, you know, if you look at the rezoning tonight that's 20 plus years old, proffers were $8,000.00. The impact's going to be over $20,000.00 per unit when they actually construct it. So we have a lot of lots sitting out there on the books with no impact fees at all associated with them, and others that are half or less than half of what the impact is. And I know a county attorney has told me many times in the past when I suggest this that it's not possible, but we ought to have a sunset clause on either the rezoning or the proffer amount, and I know we escalate the proffers based on the CPI index, but you might as well not even bother because that's worthless. You know, how do we get proffers that are appropriate if we want to have a big housing inventory or an inventory for buildable lots? How do we keep the proffers current to meet the impacts that are going to be incurred? And I know that's not something we can solve tonight, but I think that's something we need to look at. You know, how do we mesh these two together? Because we could have 20,000 lots rezoned, and they could be built on 20 years from now, and we could get a proffer that's 20% of what the impact is, and that's not beneficial to the county residents. I don't disagree with anything that you said. As you mentioned, the county attorney is correct, and the only way you can currently escalate a proffer under state code is through the CPI calculation. It's unfortunate and difficult to deal with, and we just talked about it tonight. As it relates to Stonebridge, so it's a fair comment, sir. Thank you very much. Do you have anything on planning applications? I do not, no, sir. Very good. With that, that completes our agenda. I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adjournment. Before we adjourn, do we have a meeting since we have nothing on the agenda? Okay. So our next meeting in April is in case. Move to adjourn. Have a motion and a second? Second. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Have a safe drive home. Thank you very much.
