Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-06-10
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=353
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. The chairman did give me a bunch of questions and what I've tried to do was capture those questions in a presentation format. So I'm going to go through a presentation. If you have questions that I'm not picking up on or additional questions, let's go ahead and throw them out. We'll try to address them. If it's something I know I've got in the presentation later, I'll tell you to hold on to it, but I want to make sure we have streaming conversation. I've got a lot of stuff that I want to share with you because I think all of it addresses the questions I'm hearing. Thank you. So with that said, I'll start rolling. I do have a lot of slides, so I'll talk quickly through some of them, but I wanted to make sure you had background on everything that we do at Frederick Water that addresses the questions I received from the chairman. Some of it is just the basic. We are your water and sewer provider. We secure the raw water supply that we treat it. We have drinking water to our customers, and then we collect the sewage, treat it, and discharge it. So we do the whole nine yards, if you will. Our typical water demand is from winter 6.5 million gallons a day to summer at 8.5. That's been consistent the last three, four years. It goes up a little bit, but that's the good range. And most importantly is we're funded by our monthly consumption rates, which is basically our customer bills every month, and our availability fees, which is what the development community pays for a new connection. So if you build a new house, you build a new commercial building, you have a new connection to us as an availability fee. And the last bullet up there I always like to point out is our operation does not receive any taxpayer contributions. So we're funded by that monthly consumption rate and availability fee. So that mindset is extremely important. As we go through, so that Frederick Water's role is to collect and serve. When the developers come to town and they want to do something, it's on them to extend the services to and through their sites. And that's a key component. They have to design it, construct it. Fund it and bring the water and sewer that's necessary for their development. We do have times where a single project isn't going to do it all himself. We have an example of right 11 North industrial sewer area was done through about 20, 20 years ago, 25 years ago. And it basically took sewer from exit three 17, all the way to three 23. So from Rutherford all the way to the West Virginia state line, it was initiated by 11 property owners. They signed contracts with Frederick water. They made commitments. They had the funds to fund it and to provide the easements. And they actually, as a result got reserved capacities. So that's an example where the development community and property and are stepped up and did a regional improvement that we still benefit from today. Uh, Stevenson interceptor is another great example where a developer was going to build a significant gravity sewer line to serve his needs. And we said, Hey, if you oversize it, we'll pay for oversize and that can serve the regional basis. So there's some partnerships out there that if a developer needs to have the service and it's serving more than just him, we want to work with them. So we're going to work with them. We're going to work with them. We're going to work with them. We're going to work with them. We're going to work with them and make sure there's capacity for others in our system. Um, what you also find is some projects and some projects just, they go through the development process. We, we see multiple developers show interest in nothing materializes. And I think it's because sometimes economically they're not developable. Um, and then also times change. I look at the willow run project and the corporate Valley golf course project. Uh, both were planned 20 years ago during the healthy times. And when the recession hit, they both stopped. They've since reinvented the projects. Yeah. And they're coming back through with today's healthy economy. Uh, but when you look at it, willow run was a great example where they funded a 2.5 mile force main because they had no sewer out there. So there's a situation where property owners work together. We work with them and make sure significant regional benefits can materialize. Um, a lot of your questions talk about water. We hear this in the community all the time. So I wanted to do is give you a brief overview on our water system. Uh, we are very unique, unlike a lot of communities that have one. Water source city Winchester goes to the Shenandoah river. They have one water source. Uh, 30 years ago, our organizations decided we weren't going to buy water from Winchester anymore. We were going to create our own water and we were going to base it on production wells. We're going to base it on the, uh, the abandoned quarries that we had throughout the area. Um, so we started in, uh, just west of the town of Steven city. That's what the catalyst was. And then we grew and went north. But as of today, we actually have five production wells. I'm going to see if I can go through it. We've got five production wells and I zoomed in there. Um, so you can get a sense where they are the dark blue or the five production wells. We currently operate. Uh, we have one called the cover, which is all the way down near Middletown. It was secured. It was established 30 years ago. There, we don't have services down there, but we do own, we do own the site. So at some point in the future, that could be another production well for us. Uh, but you can see our production wells really concentrate around water plants and quarries. So that's, that's the, the deal water plant. Town Steven city. We have two production wells in that vicinity. Uh, when you go north, we actually have two water plants up there. Now we've got the Anderson and slow Winsky, and we've got two production wells that we've had for over 20 years up there. And then more recently down in the lake Frederick community, while that production well was established in 2015, just in the past month or two, we actually have the water plant in operation. Um, so you can see right there, we have five production wells, uh, with a sixth for future. We also have six quarries that we're currently using. Uh, these are Corey reservoirs that we have connected to our system. I use the same color scheme. So the dark blue are existing quarries that we're using and the light blue are actually three additional quarries, which we control, but they're not connected to our system. So that's our future growth opportunities. Uh, the unique thing with the Corey system is what we're finding is just because they're close to each other. They're not necessarily interconnected. Um, so those are good water resources. So there's good, we call them the Corey reservoirs because our target is to keep them full of water. Um, and by doing that, it raises the groundwater table in the vicinity. Um, the quarries up north are interesting ones to look at because those are the results of more recent mining activity. When the, when the quarries are mining, they're draining the water down. That's how they produce a product. When they abandoned the quarry, we have access to them now and we want them to fill with water. So I think that's important to understand that when it becomes a Frederick water quarry reservoir, we want it to be full of water, which is bringing the water table up from where it was during quarry operations. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Possibly the past 20 years as it was an active quarry. Um, so we have those, we have six quarries. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Do you own the quarries? We own the ones in Stephen city. So we own the three down here. We own this one here. That's the Ebert quarry. We own that. And the cluster up here, we have various, uh, lease agreements, a hundred year lease agreements with car most access. So technically we don't own it, but we've got a hundred years. And, uh, there are a lot of stuff happens at a hundred years. So we'll continue. We'll continue to grow it. The wells. Do you own the wells? Uh, the wells, um, let me back up on that one. So we'd talk about wells. We own these four wells and these two wells. We, uh, we, we secured through easements, perpetual easements, so they don't have a lifespan on them. They just have easements on them. And that's part of it. We, we don't want us, we don't want to use a system that we don't control because we don't want it to disappear the next day. So we've got long-term commitments and obligations. Um, so you can see it. We, with our production wells, whether Corey reservoirs were scattered north, we're scattered south. And our goal is to, to keep those Corey reservoirs full of water. Uh, as I noted, we have four treatment plants. Um, it has, I don't know if we've announced it in a formal manner, but we actually, the Anderson water treatment plant, because of our agreements we had with car moose that happened 10 years ago. Uh, we were, we were abandoning the Anderson quarry or the Anderson water treatment plant. And just the end of April, we've struck a deal with car moose and we've got it for 30 years. So that's, that gives us more redundancy on the water treatment side of things. And as you'll see in a minute, that gives us a lot of water treatment for, for quite a long time ahead. Uh, we do secure water from the city of Winchester and, uh, that we, it's always available. We have a contract with them. We're purchasing a lot right now during drought, because we're trying not to take water from the quarries. Let's grab it from the river. Why it's available. Let the quarries continue to hold onto the resources. If there's a time where the city can't sell us water from the river. We know our quarries will be there waiting for us. Uh, the bullet in the bottom left is key. Uh, our entire water system from the Northern water plants, all the way down to the new Lake Frederick water plant, everything is interconnected. And what that means is if one water source, one quarry, one production, well, one treatment plant isn't operating efficiently. If we need to give it a break, let her recharge, do some repairs. We can turn it off. We can take it offline because we have everything and you can sort of see it on the map. Everything in blue is interconnected. Uh, about eight years ago, we did a water main along route 37, the west side of town, and that created that connection, tying everything together. So it helps us provide maximum flexibility, um, and redundancy in our services. As I noted with our four water plants, we actually have 18.5 million gallons a day of water treatment capabilities are current when we throw in our East pit quarry, which we'll talk about in a little bit that puts us up at 12 million gallons a day of water supply. Um, so there's a difference. You know, we're going to continue to look for additional water supply, but we've got treatment capacities available to us. And if we've got 12 million gallons a day of water supply, and we're only delivering the 6.5 to 8.5, you can see we have, we have a little bit of extra water for growth to, to take advantage of, um, based on trends we've got, we actually have our system. If you look at our growth rates and what we've done as a community and what we've done in terms of new customer connections and water consumption. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. When you guys do comprehensive plan studies, we always ask, what is the use? If it's an applicant coming through, we always say, what is your use? What's your water demand? We say the same thing with rezonings. Sometimes a rezoning tells us exactly what they need, and we can work it into our system, and we can say, yes, we can get it to you. Other times the applicant doesn't share the information, so we can't give a hard yes, we can serve you because we don't have enough information. But when you're doing SWASI expansions, our goal is to always understand what the land use is, what the anticipated water demand is, so we can put it into our evaluations. My last bullet up there, the faster growth and heavier consumption obviously is going to reduce. It's not going to be 40 years. It's going to be 20 years, and if you use it a lot faster, it's going to be 10 years. But we're constantly looking for new water sources. We're constantly trying to be creative, and that's one of the benefits of having a diverse system. We aren't just looking at one river. We're looking at it. We're looking at everything. There's a question. I think that almost answers your, do we have enough water for future development? As I said, based on the trends we've seen and based on your UDA reports, which Wyatt says you've got about 7,500 potential houses that he likes to think is real, it only uses 1.5 million gallons, and we'll have an excess of almost 4 million gallons over the next couple years. So we can meet your UDA. Now, we recognize that could be 20 years of growth, but the question always comes up, can you serve the UDA? Yes. Also, we currently have water supply and treatment that we can serve commercial industrial. What you'll see later in my presentation is commercial industrial, like we've always had, you know, a Stonewall Industrial Park or hotels or restaurants, they're not significant users. They're easy for us to accommodate. It's when you get a significant user that we have to circle around and understand what the impact is on the services we have. It doesn't mean we can't serve them, but you have to understand that. You have to understand it's going to take up some of the capacity that we'd like to stretch for the 20-year period if we can. Significant user, we actually, and it's one of my bullets later, but I'll touch on it real fast. We have a policy that we adopted under legal guidance 10 years ago that says anybody that uses more than 5% of the available capacity at our treatment plant, we're going to call a significant user. And that was tied into obligations we had on the sewer side, so we mirror it. If you're going to use one gallon of water, we're going to expect you to give us one gallon of sewer. So a significant user would be anybody that's up at 100,000 gallons. We don't have many above that. Most of our users are less than 15. Even on an industrial, house doesn't use but 175 gallons, so it's nothing a day. But a hotel, restaurant, hotels might be at 5 to 10. They're not significant. Okay. One of the questions we've heard about is are we tracking? Is Frederick Water tracking groundwater levels? And this is a dashboard. I just took a snapshot. I think this is actually from Monday. But this is something we have. If you come to our offices, we have a big television screen on one of our walls. And if you go to our maintenance group, they have it and all the water plants have it. Everybody's looking at the same screen. And we have options on the side, but the overview is a great image for today's conversation. This is all the monitoring. And what I did is I just highlighted the groundwater. We have a lot of water levels at our production wells. So I talked about we have five production wells, and each one of them shows up on the screen. It tells us how much water is being produced. It tells us what the groundwater levels are so we can track groundwater. The same screen we use for our treatment plants. So we've got four water treatment plants. You can see I've circled them there. We actually have our Park and Smilt wastewater plant on there, too. So we track stuff on a daily basis. The beauty of technology is this. We can track stuff because we're pumping. We've got electricity at the source. We can monitor things, and it all gets put on the screen. So we're able to track everything of that nature. We also have a series of monitoring wells. The difference between these are production wells. We have pumps. We have electrical assets at these wells so we can track them. We have monitoring wells all over the place. This is the ones in our southern region. And with the monitoring well, it's simply a well that's been established, but it doesn't have a user. We don't want a pump in it. So we go out there twice a month, and we measure the groundwater. The reason I say you can't have it, we don't want it to be somebody's residential well because we don't want their pump turning on because it messes up the pump curve. So these are truly monitoring wells that we've established over the years. And just at a quick glance, this is 2019, and this is last month. So you can see this is coming out of the wet period. 2018, 2019 was very wet. You can see it dropped. But then it almost stabilized. So we've been in a drought for three years, but different wells have different responses. But you can see, for the most part, it's stable. Even coming out where we are today, this bottom one is probably the most drastic change. But we're better off than we were a couple years ago. So from a groundwater monitoring perspective, we watch everything. We manage everything. We're in pretty good shape right now. Now, the state would say we're in a groundwater emergency, and that's based on the Clark County well. And we think we ought to be practicing responsible use of our water. So whether it's our customers or somebody on a well, just recognize the groundwater as a region. It's not the healthiest it's been. But we watch the groundwater around our system to make sure that we're not overwhelming anything. If we see, even through our electronic stuff, if we see any change in some of the groundwater levels, then we can go out and look at the monitoring wells in that region and see if there's a reaction. And if there is, then we can cut back on the water we withdraw. But I can tell you, for the most part, we're not seeing direct correlations. We know that some wells in the community have gone dry over the past three years during this drought. But when we look at all of that, we're not seeing direct correlations. We're not seeing direct correlations. And so, when we look at all of our documents and our monitoring around us, we're not seeing things go dry. So I think there's a different – there's so many different veins of groundwater, sources of groundwater. And that shows by we've got quarries next to each other. We have production wells in close vicinity, and they don't even affect each other. So I think a lot of personal wells, private wells, they're hitting different seams than we actually are hitting too. I don't have – I don't have a slide on this, but I did capture some numbers. One of the questions was, how deep are our production wells? And – okay. Got my little cheat sheet. There we go. So of our five production wells, our deepest one is actually next to the Anderson water plant up north, and it's under 700 feet. So our shallowest is at Orchard View at 330 feet. So that's a range, 330 to 700 is what we have drilled production wells at. But the pump depths are much shallower, 280 feet. So that's a range, 330 to 700 is what we have drilled production wells at. But the pump depths are much shallower, 280 feet. So that's a range, 330 to 700 is what we have drilled production wells at. But the pump depths are much shallower, 280 feet to 500 feet. So we wanted to make sure that we're not going to the bottom of the well. We're just dropping down below the water level. And more importantly, the water level during pumping, during cycling, one of the wells, the water is 63 feet below the ground. We're pulling a million gallons out, and the water is only 63 feet below the ground. So you can get a sense as to – there's a lot of water out there. Part of the beauty of – we use a hydrogeologist, Mike Hoffler's group. And he's a geologist. Mike Hoffler's group has been doing it for us for many years. I don't know the magic behind it, but he's been able to find these production wells, and they've been very successful for us. You just said that you were pulling a million gallons out of one well. Yeah. And it's still at 63 feet? It's still 63 feet. And one of the wells we like to talk about is called the Wetzel well, which is at the northernmost well we have. We pull a million gallons out of it every day. And when we turn it off, the water comes out of the wellhead. Wow. And, I mean, this is a joke. You may have heard it before. We had to replace the pump. So the company came in to replace the pump, and they said, could you turn off the water? It must be backflowing from somewhere. It's too much pressure. We're like, no, that's the well. But, yeah, so we've been very fortunate with our production wells. They're very healthy. Eric, on the production wells, we touch one, but when we find a new one, we over-pump it, and then we back it off, and we pump it. Yep. And that's part of how we – we do the same thing with the water. Yeah. We do the same thing with our quarries. You do a drawdown. So you really test the abilities of that well, of that quarry, to produce water, and you figure out where its happy point is. You figure out where the point is where the water stabilizes. So if you can take 500,000 gallons and you get stability, that's where we're going to go. If you can get a million gallons and it drops a little bit and then stabilizes, that's where we're going to end up. But we've done these studies before we even touch the water. We've done the studies. And it's amazing. The levels that were found 25 years ago are consistent with what we're seeing today. I want to shift to – so drought resiliency, and this talks about our water, our water supply and getting ready for the future. This is a big project, East Pit Advanced Treatment. It was actually – we had it – I think it was in the paper more recently, but that's our biggest project that we've got right now. It's going to a new water source, something we got 10 years ago. And it's bringing it to the quarry, to the East Pit. I'm going to run through this real fast. The importance of the East Pit Advanced Treatment is it builds on our water security. It builds on our water supply. And it continues to use a variety of water sources. We don't rely on one source. We go for all the sources that are available in this community. Nearly a decade ago, it was in 2017, we acquired permits. We acquired properties, easements to take this water supply and make it part of our process. And we decided not to turn it on yet. But we own all the rights to it. We're entitled to it. So this East Pit project that we're going – we're building right now, we're advancing right now, it's using stuff that we secured in 2017. And part of it is the three-year drought that we've been in. It's a great catalyst. All the communities – really, communities all over the state, but certainly in this region, are looking for water resiliency. They're looking for reservoirs. They're trying to figure out how they do it. And that's our opportunity. We say, well, we've already got the reservoir. We've already got the permits. Let's start building the infrastructure. So what was 10 years of strategic planning is now moving into construction. And what this project is, is we're going to use the water supply to fill the quarry. So we have the East Pit quarry, which is north of Stonewall Park, north of our Saloinski water plant. It's 1.7 billion gallons of storage. It has been recharging. We did improvements to it five years ago. So it's been recharging for four years. And it has at least 100 feet above our water intake. And we're going to use this creek to continue to add water to that pit because we want it to fill up. We want to maintain at least 1.7 billion gallons of water in this quarry reservoir. Now, a lot of people – the numbers are numbers. But what that means is 1.7 billion gallons. That's over a year's supply of water needs for our entire community. I mean, it's phenomenal. A lot of communities are looking for doing reservoirs, and they're hoping they can get three months of storage. This one quarry gets us over a year. Not part of today's presentation, but we have a second – the Martin Pit, which is the quarry reservoir we should have from Carmoose in 2032, 2033. It's going to be the twin. It'll be another 1.7 billion gallons. It'll be a pit. It'll recharge naturally, and then we'll continue to look for other water sources to help keep it full. But what this East Pit project does is it brings water together to make sure we can fill this 1.7 billion gallons. We did issue the – it's guaranteed maximum price is the procurement process we're going through. So we issued the contract for that last month. And it's getting a head start. So it was approved last month. And by the end of 2027, we'll be pushing additional water sources into the East Pit. We want that pit to fill up a good year before we even try to take water out of it because we want to fill that 1.7 billion gallons. And we'll go higher if it'll hold it. Important aspects, we didn't have to buy anything. We already owned all the rights. We had to renew – we're renewing our permit just because we did a little tweaking. But we already have – we have a permit from the past. We have the easements. We have the property. And that last bullet is the water. And that last bullet is key. One of the benefits of our system is we're very diverse. If the creek – if the water source doesn't – just like our wells, if the water source is not available for us, we're not going to touch it. If it's overflowing, we're going to grab that overflow. So what that means is when the – in this case, when the creeks are flowing high, we're going to take 10 percent of the flows. When the creeks are flowing low, we're not going to touch it. If there's a big storm and the creek has floodwaters and high turbidity, we're not going to touch it. We don't need it. So we're going to be selective. We're only going to use the water when it's a high quality and it's not draining on the resources down there. It would be excess at a 10 percent withdrawal, which is a standard DEQ number. It doesn't impact the creek itself. So that's the water supply phase. And if you hadn't seen, that's our east pit project. It's a huge, huge reservoir. We've got our pump station that we've already built. It's up there. And then over on the horizon is our Solinsky water treatment plant. So you can see how close proximity. And part of our strategic land acquisition, we actually own all the land between the Solinsky plant and the quarry. So we don't have to worry about bothering property owners. We've already controlled our destiny on that one. The second part of the east pit advanced treatment initiative is the actual treatment phase. We're going to do pretreatment. We're going to do post treatment. And then we're going to have outstanding water treatment abilities for our customers. What the advanced treatment is, we are going to be making – we're going to build a plant that can treat water. We're going to build a plant that can treat whatever the water quality is that comes out of the east pit. Right now, the east pit has a hardness and a TDS level that's higher than we like. So this advanced treatment will enable us to treat that. But more importantly is that second bullet up there is the EPA keeps coming up with new regulations. They call it emerging contaminants. And PFAS is the big one everyone talks about right now. We're getting ahead of the game. We don't have any PFAS in any of our water sources. But we're going to be making it. But we're preparing if it ever shows up, we're not going to be surprised by it. So this advanced treatment facility will be able to treat PFAS if it ever shows up. And quite honestly, PFAS is going to start showing up in rivers and everywhere else. So I have no reason to believe it won't show up in our sources. It just isn't there right now. But we're going to be prepared for it. Other communities are just starting – they don't have the treatment. They're trying to figure out what to do. We're ahead of the game. We're at the 60 percent design on this right now. And hopefully you can see at the bottom. Hopefully later this summer we're going to issue a contract for it. And then this improvement will be completed by the early of 2029. There's a year discrepancy. We want the quarry to fill for a year plus before we start taking water out of it because we want that quarry to be fully blended. We want it to be filled to the top. And we want it to blend all the water sources we have so that when we take water out of it, it's a consistent water source going to the new treatment process. You've got – we handed out a lot of information. We handed out some papers for you all. So we gave you a water supply handout. We also gave you some information on the East Pit. And we have a webpage too. So there's a lot of information out there on the East Pit. And if you've got questions tonight or at any time, certainly reach out to us. We want to make sure you get the answers and you have the right information. Financial. We saw some questions about affordability. So let's talk about financial position and strategy. As we talked about at the beginning, we don't receive taxpayer contributions. It's our ratepayers that pay. New connections pay. And developers, they pay for their infrastructure. So we're practicing growth pays for growth. And then we've been able to accumulate some reserves over the past decade. And that's outstanding to be in that position because as we go into the East Pit plan, it's expensive. And we don't have to go out and finance the whole project. We have flexibility. So one of the challenges any organization runs into, and you all have experienced that with the school, you have to figure out how you're going to pay for things. And what we've done for the past 10 years is we've accumulated money. So we have reserves. So as we go into building a new water plant, building new wastewater plants, doing regional infrastructure improvements, we have the flexibility of saying, okay, if we can get a good bond, if we can get a good rate, we're going to get a loan. If we can't, we're going to use our own money. We have that flexibility. What we want to do is we want to keep our ratepayers, we want to keep our rates stable so there's no surprises. What we have learned over the years, and I think this is a great point, what we have learned over the years, and this is one of our funding sources, VML, VACO, is whenever they look at our finances to say whether or not they'll loan us money or they'll put us into the statewide bond pool, they keep coming back and saying you need to make sure you're consistently operating with revenue growth of at least 4.2%. Now, our revenue growth and our revenue stream is from our existing customers every month, it's from our new availability fees, and it's little stuff. But those are the two big things. And that's something we have to constantly work through, is trying to make sure that we have the right rates to pay for our obligations. And if we have the right rates, and this is what VML tells us, and I think the next slide is going to get there, if we have the right rates for our customers, we have the right revenue streams, that gets us the better opportunity for an interest on loans going forward. Here's our customer affordability. This is actually from our web page. We do have our last adopted rate increase is effective July 1st. We did this about five years ago. And where we'll be on July 1st, and this is what we're seeing, so this is next month, we are the cheapest, I say cheapest, we're the less expensive. But when you compare us to other communities in this area, in this region, we're well below everybody else for what it typically costs a residential customer. So we're proud that we're able to make sure we can keep our rates low. Now, at the same time, we are constantly looking at making sure we're doing things correctly, so we are having discussions. So we are having discussions right now with Davenport and company, who does a lot of financial analysis of municipal organizations, whether it's the county government or the water authority. So we're having discussions with them to figure out what can they do to us to help reaffirm that we're in a solid financial position, that we've got the correct rates. So we haven't entered a contract yet, but we're working with them, trying to figure out what the appropriate arrangement would be to have them come do an evaluation of our system, look at our budgets, look at our audits, look at our rate structure. Look at our CIP, understand what we have to build over the next 10 years, and tell us where we need to correct things, if we need to correct things. The beauty of the process is, at the end, we want to make sure that we've got the correct financial structure in place. We're charging our customers an appropriate amount, and we're also well positioned so we can get the lowest financial loans going forward, lowest rates on those loans, and figure out when we should be borrowing money and when we should be using our reserves. And we expect Davenport will give us some good guidance on that process. Talk about water. We also have a water master plan underway. What we have done for the past 10 years is we've been strengthening our water supply, our water sources, our water treatment. Now we're actually doing a water master plan to say, let's look at our water lines. Let's look at our infrastructure. Are there areas within our system, when you look at what you all plan to do as a county, when land development in the Swaziland, in the Waukesha, are there areas that we need to extend our water services to meet that future land use? Are there areas in our current system that have deficiencies, don't have adequate flows, don't have adequate pressures? So we're going to use this water master plan effort to analyze our system and identify things that need improvement. If it's a system-wide improvement, then logically it's going to end up in our CIP, and we'll program to do some improvements to it. It also creates opportunities if it's not a regional, I'm sorry, if it's not a system-wide improvement but it's more than just one property that would benefit, I'll call that a regional improvement, we're going to look and figure out if we can do some partnerships with developers. I started out my presentation talking about the Red 11 North area where we had property owners come in and say, hey, let's enter agreements. We want to help make things happen. We're always available for that. But I think as we come out of the water master plan, if we have areas that haven't developed but don't have adequate water services, we could create partnerships and try to get them. We're going to try to create partnerships and try to get that service boosted up. When do you think that master plan is going to be done? Target is by the end of this calendar year. Yeah, by the end of the calendar, by December. One of the beauties of master planning, a lot of times you just get a consultant to say, tell me, look at stuff. And what we're doing through this one is we're using our GIS. So all of our technologies, we're strengthening our GIS so we can turn the GIS data over to a consultant who then can analyze it. And our GIS will actually be a water model for future use. So we can do stuff. We can test things ourselves going forward. And the last bullet is for your chairman because he specifically asked, okay, if the county wants to build at Sunnyside, where do we stand? And what we already know is there's going to be deficiencies on the Sunnyside site simply because you've got a nice hill. And if you want to put a multi-story building, you're going to have to have additional water improvements to get to it. We know that there's other properties in that area that haven't been developed. We know there's other properties that have been developed. That we're going to have to do. And that would benefit from a water boost. So I think I would expect the Water Master Plan is going to give us a regional improvement need in Sunnyside. And when we get to that, we'll hopefully get it into a partnership, get work with developers, get into the CIP, and do whatever is projected by the Master Plan so that when the county wants to use the property out there, the water source is already available for you. Well, the thing is that, yes, absolutely, because we know that we're going to have to move this county, the folks in the building out there eventually. The courts are busting at the seams. They need to come over. It's just a fact of life. So all of us have talked about this where we want to plan. We've got to be planning. When you're planning, you're planning five or ten years out. So the Master Plan is going to help us with that. But it's also going to help us with what we discussed with the EDA. We're trying to target areas that it's going to be appropriate for it to grow. And that Master Plan is going to help us. I concur. I mean, if we're going to be able to execute as a county on constructing, call it, two industrial parks of between 300 and 500 acres, we've got to know where the water is at. And we've got to make sure it's got the adequate flows and pressures and all those sorts of things to be able to execute because our industrial parks are tapped out, and we need that industrial growth. It doesn't have to be big users like you were talking about, but that's what we're looking for. And that's where the jobs are. And the county needs jobs. What we want to do, I hadn't thought about it until you say that, but part of our Master Plan, and we're looking at the SWASA, we're looking at our system, if there's areas identified, that the county has identified for economic development prospects, let's make sure we know where those are so we can put it in the modeling and make sure we've got the right infrastructure identified that has to be extended to serve that area. I think the challenge right now is the county doesn't have any idea. Okay. And I think that we need to get our act together and work really well with you guys across the table to figure that out so that we're not looking at spots. That's the reason I asked the question. Is it okay if it's a wasted effort for us to look at an area that's not going to be served by you or underserved? Let's put it that way. Definitely. That goes along with the communication. That's one of the things that we're all trying to get is having these different entities talking more and planning. I mean, true planning is what it is. Keep the dialogue. Yep. Future growth and demand. Our water and sewer system is sized based on historical trends. I've said for 20 years that as a community we grow about 3%, 2.9% a year. Sometimes you grow more, sometimes you grow less, but that's been an average over the past couple decades. So that's how our system is being modeled and anticipating. Okay. So that's what we're doing. Our water system now is in good shape. We will start seeing a transition over the next 10 years. We have a 10-year CIP, and we've identified a new wastewater treatment plant need in the northern surface area. So we've already secured the property, and once we get our east pit water component under control, then we're going to shift and we're going to start talking about, okay, what do we need to do on the wastewater treatment side of things? But we're trying to stay ahead of the curve. We're trying to understand what your growth demands are. And if we look at trends in the past, we're in good shape. If things start picking up, whether it's new house or industry or something, we might have to expedite some of our construction to stay ahead of things. One of the biggest challenges we have is our pipeline sizing challenge. Water systems is one thing, because you can fill a pipe, and whether people use it or not, the water is going to be there. You could flush it out if it sits too long because it gets stale. Gravity sewer typically will flow. Whether you have a lot of flow or a little flow, it's going to flow through the gravity sewer lines. But one of the concerns we have is, on the force main piping. So certain areas of the county are, we have a lot of pump stations, sanitary sewer pump stations, just because of the way our terrain is. In certain areas, it's hard to plan for the future needs, because if you oversize a force main, and you don't add enough flow to it, it's going to turn septic. It's going to create odors. It's going to create corrosion. And at the far extreme, it's going to settle. The solids are going to settle and close. And it's going to clog your pipe. And it messes up your efficiency. And it could actually clog that pipe, so you can't use it. And if you have a two-mile force main, and you know it's clogged, nothing's flowing through it, it becomes a challenge to figure out where the clog is and get it unclogged. So one of the challenges we have is trying to right-size force mains. If it's small extensions, and we know what the development is, we can size it. But when we look at the sewer and water service area, and we know the county envisions future growth, we don't know when that growth is going to happen. We don't know what the demands are on that growth. So it's hard for us to figure out how are we going to get the surface there. If it's a gravity solution, that becomes a lot easier to digest. Force main, we get caught because if we have one user that we know is coming in this year, but nothing else is identified, we're going to size the pipe for what we know is coming, plus a little bit of flexibility. But we're not going to size it to serve that entire area because chances are we're going to have problems with that force main. So I just wanted to point that out there because some of our projects, we've built up at Stevenson's Regional Pump Station, which serves Snowden Bridge. When it was built, it was built with two force mains. It was built with a small one and a large one, and it took 20 years before the second line actually started being used. But that's one of the challenges. Do you build the infrastructure and let it sit there for 20 years and hopefully remain intact, or do you just wait until that second? The energy and the need comes, and then you have to put a parallel line in. That's something we'll continue to work through. System capacities, these are ballpark numbers, but I wanted to give you something. So typically residential growth, we might see an annual consumption increase of 50,000 to 80,000 gallons a day, and that's a ballpark number. It's conversation. Commercial, you might see 20,000. During the recession, obviously, that doesn't exist, and during hot times, you might be at the high end of that range. But I share that because that's typically what we might see. If I've got 4 million gallons of available water, I have a lot of flexibility. I have a lot of growth opportunities. So I just wanted to point that out, a little something to think about. Go back to that, because that last statement there, the last statement there, the system's not designed for multiple significant users. It's critical, actually. It's important that we recognize that. What we have, and that's... So some of the users that we've spoken to recently are just over that number, and we can serve them. Because if you give me one this year, I'm okay. But don't give me five this year, because I can't accommodate. What builds off on that is your next thing. It's your significant user strategy. And this I talked about at the very beginning. In 2017, we adopted a sewer policy. And what it says is we are not supporting a new customer that needs to use more than 5% of the available wastewater treatment capacity that would serve that site. And what that says is, right now, based on our available capacities, it's 100,000 to 120,000 gallons a day, depending on which wastewater plant the flows would go to. That policy was drafted by our legal counsel because there was some litigation going on in Northern Virginia, and this protected us. It made sure that we weren't allowing too many connections to our service area that would result in sewer overflows and backups in people's businesses and things of that nature. But with that policy, which we've never had to deal with it, but what it says is if the county supervisor wants a user that wants more than that flow, and you guys are committed to it, we're committed to serve, but what we're going to ask you is tell us that you want that customer. And then our board can look at our policy and say, based on the direction of the supervisors, they know that this is going to use a lot more capacity than we readily have available, but we'll accept, we'll work with you, and we'll do a policy exception to make sure that business can come here. But what this does also say, if you get a use, and you're not sure, if it's the right fit for our community, if you don't want to use 100,000 gallons on that use because you're not happy with it, if you don't support it, we can't. We won't give an exception to it either. So it becomes a partnership and just talking with one another. The second bullet up there, the potential, one thing that we've talked about is should we create a maximum daily allocation? So same idea. Okay, if there's a use that you all want and we don't want them to go, I'm going to use my 100,000 gallons. We don't want them to go over 100,000 gallons. County wants it. County supervisors want it. We can get through a policy exception. We can get there. But we're also going to have an agreement with that user that says you cannot exceed this number. If you exceed, here's your penalty. We're going to let you know up front these are what the penalties are. And we've already talked enough with our legal counsel. The agreement will spell out what the penalty is and what the curtailment is. We can give you seven-day notice for a council. We can give you a not only penalties in the financial arena, but the curtailment. We can cut your water off. We can size your meter. We can size your pipe. But if you still feel ways to get around what we agreed was your maximum, the agreement that you've executed with us before you even use our certification, we can make sure that the service will be implemented. Do you already have that in place? I mean, do you have users where you're? We haven't. No. The agreement is we've had discussions with our legal counsel, and it's being drafted. The legal counsel did the evaluation, said, certainly, we're entitled to do this. And if the user doesn't want to sign the agreement, the user doesn't have to use the service. So it's a, we think it's an excellent tool that we can use going forward to make sure that we aren't overwhelmed on the water and sewer side. We know what the abilities are. We know who the users are, and we know what they're going to give us. One of the biggest challenges we have is if you, if you take a million gallons of water today and you don't want it for the next week, you really screw up our process. You're draining all of our tanks, and now we have to work overtime trying to find the water. So we want stability. We want an agreement so we know what your maximum is going to be. We know what your dailies are going to be, and we have consistency in how we run an operation. Mr. Chair, the other reason we looked at that was we've had recent instances where somebody's come in and said, I want 100,000 gallons in a CUP. And we found out from Wyatt and others that the county really can't enforce that one condition of the CUP. You can force all the others. So I went with Eric, and we talked to outside counsel and said, hey, if somebody just wants water and they're going to evaporate it and they need 100,000 or 150,000 gallons a day, how do we make sure they don't go to 200 and not have the ability to cut them back? So this was, this is something we've talked about just in the last few weeks because it's come up with the recent data center up at the north end of the county. So we're going to work through that policy so that we have, when somebody comes in with a CUP, we're sort of protected, and you have some reliance that we can hold them to the water that they're asking for. That's great. The last bullet up there is potential solutions. With technologies, a lot of times, we're seeing a lot more reuse throughout the country. We're not seeing it in our community yet. So that could be an additional water source, depending on what the user is, what the quality is, what they need. It's something that is acceptable in Virginia in certain areas, but it's certainly acceptable throughout this country. So we need to be open to that, and we need to look at those options. And the last thing I have, the last slide, and this is a plug because this is on your agenda later tonight, but I figured I'm sitting here. Let's let you know what's going on here. Gary and I and Cheryl, we're all on the FWSA, and we have been working with the city of Winchester staff for the past three years trying to figure out how do we improve FWSA. FWSA is the entity that owns the wastewater treatment facilities. They own Parkins Mill, but by contract, we're 100% responsible for all of its operations, all of its cost. It's ours. FWSA owns the Route 7 facility, the Opec and Water Reclamation facility, and by contract, the city operates it, and also by contract, we have allocation, the city has allocation. But we've been working with the city staff trying to figure out how do we improve things, how do we have a better relationship with the city from Frederick Waters' perspective to the city, because we're the ones that are paying the bills essentially. And what you'll see on your agenda tonight is a proposal that the staff at both organizations have supported, and actually the city council approved last week or the week before. Frederick Waters approved it last month. FWSA approved it previously. And what we're trying to do is realign the membership of FWSA so it's a little more balanced. Right now you've got nine members. You only have three from Frederick County. You have five from the city, and you have one joint. So what we're trying to do is balance it. So it's the two plus two and then the one who's the joint. The recommendation that you'll see is, put staff on it. Put staff from Frederick Waters, put staff from the city, and let us figure out how to run a wastewater plant is what it comes down to. It shouldn't be political. It should be how do we both, the city as a water operator and sewer operator in Frederick Waters, how do we run a wastewater system? So that's the membership. And probably more exciting is OWRF plant, through the inter-municipal agreement, it has been expanded over the years, and the allocations for flows, allocations for BOD have been assigned based on what each entity has wanted to buy. And what this agreement does, it says, let's just split the whole thing down the middle. We'll own half of the plant, we'll own half the flow. The city will own half the plant and half the flow. Now what that means is, Frederick Waters will benefit because Frederick Waters will get an additional 800,000 gallons of treatment capacity. We'll own more of the plant. Right now we're at probably 40%. We're at about 50% of the plant's flow. So it's a very positive thing for Frederick Waters. What the city gets out of it is they get additional BOD, which they didn't have and they need, and it was excess, we weren't using it. So it's a good opportunity. I just wanted to plug that because at the end of the day, the city doesn't need the additional flows and their staff opinions, but because we are a growing community, and as I talked about new wastewater plants and new water sources, we would certainly benefit from additional treatment capacity of that particular plant. I know your staff is going to make a presentation to you tonight, but I was sitting here, so I was going to let you know Frederick Waters' perspective, and it's advantageous to the community, and it's definitely advantageous to Frederick Waters to participate and support that. I appreciate that. That is my last slide. Hopefully I addressed questions, but certainly if there's more things that I didn't touch on, we can discuss them now or get me a note, and I'll make sure I address any questions you have on really the water and sewer things in this community. Any questions? I've got a few questions. Blue Sun and the Sun. Yes. What is an industrial park? I don't know the history on that. I'd like to be educated a little bit on that. It's an industrial park that's, I'll call it, shovel-ready, and as a county, we need industrial parks. I think that's what I've been stating. Can you elaborate a little bit on how do we get that figured out? It's a challenge. The Blue Stone Industrial Park is in the town of Stephen City, so it is not Frederick Waters' customer. It's a town customer. And the town does not have available allocations to accommodate additional connections. There's a long history, and I'm going to simplify it, but the town as a town is our customer. We provide water. We provide sewer service. But by agreement, the town only owns 250,000 gallons a day of sewer capacity. And on a dry month, they are probably processing 180,000 gallons. So they've got a little bit of capacity. But on a wet month, they'll give us over 300,000 gallons of capacity. So an agreement that Frederick Waters and the town entered in 2019 was a commitment from the town not to allow new connections until they address their I&I, their inflow and infiltration, which is basically groundwater getting into their sewer system and then overwhelming us. For Bluestone or for new connections to occur in the town, the town has to fix their sewer problem. They're still capped at 250,000 gallons, but if their gravity sewer doesn't have leaks, they'll have more capacity to play with. To get above 250,000 gallons, we have a significant pinch point because the sewer that basically from I-81 to our Park and Smell plant doesn't have excess capacity to sell to the town. So that means you have to upgrade. You have to upgrade pump stations. You have to upgrade gravity. You have to upgrade force vein. And that'll get it to the Park and Smell plant. And the town owns 250,000 gallons of treatment at the Park and Smell plant. So then we'd have to upgrade the Park and Smell plant, and the town would have to contribute to it. So the biggest challenge is the funding mechanism. And I'll be blunt. Our agreement with the town created a revenue stream. We sell them a discount. We sell them water at $1 per thousand gallons. They can sell it whatever they want. So we gave them a mechanism where they could generate revenue to fix the problem, and the problem hasn't been fixed yet. So I give you a quick snapshot, but that's one of the challenges. The town has to fix their system and hopefully have capacity to accommodate new connections. And then if they want to go above 250,000 gallons, they have to fix the pipes and the treatment on our side of things. I probably have the wrong attitude on this potentially, but I'm looking at it from a fresh perspective. I think the county side overall, not just the town of Stephen City, but the whole area, and you'll have to excuse my ignorance on not knowing all the back story and everything you just said there, but I'm just trying to figure out is what's the path to success for the county? Because in my opinion, that's what really matters. And there's got to be a path. And even the industrial users or whoever the users are that tap in, they're not going to be able to pay for all of those infrastructure improvements. And so it's like we're at gridlock for it never to happen. Going off your first slide that most of it's paid by the developers, it's like we've got an industrial park that will never be used. That's what it seems like. And I'm like, how do we as a county put our big boy pants on and figure out how to get through this to be able to have industrial development, down there? Yeah. We have a sewer master plan that identifies the, it's probably a couple years old now, but identifies some of the improvements that would have to be undertaken to increase the flows and get them treated. And it's a significant number. It exceeds $30 million in improvements. So it's not something that Frederick Water customers should bear as a responsibility because we view it as, by contract, it's a town responsibility. So we have to work through those details. So, Supervisor Aiken, I think you bring up an excellent point. I think that this merits further conversation to get together, you know, in a small collective to work on this because it is a big problem. And I appreciate the description about Stephen City, but I just want to make sure that everyone is clearly aware that they are making concerted efforts on those improvements. I mean, they have done a lot of work. So they would like to recognize that. They would like to rectify their situation. And they've made tremendous headway. So I just want to make sure everyone is aware of that. Jason, the simple answer is, Frederick County taxpayers would have to do it. That's it? That's the simple solution. And you're talking probably $20 to $30 million. I figured that. And what I don't know. So is it worth it? And what I don't know, okay, is because I haven't studied the financials because I've had other things on my mind. But I know that Frederick County Water has a substantial capital. Okay. And it has a substantial cash balance. And it's growing on an annual basis. And so the question is, is when does that happen? Is it on Frederick County? Is it on Frederick County Water? Is it on us both? No, it's on Frederick County because Frederick Water is only supplied by the customers. So it's not fair for the customers in Frederick County to foot the bill for Stephen City and to benefit the rest of Frederick County to make all those improvements because they don't get the improvements for it. The benefit of Bluestone is tax dollars for Frederick County. So that's where the money needs come from. And the money we're saving in Frederick Water building up our reserves, it's already spoken for in projects. So, yeah, we're not going to spend consumer money from our customers for another jurisdiction that benefits others other than just our customers. Well, actually, it wouldn't benefit our customers at all. It would benefit the taxpayers. It would benefit the taxpayers of Frederick County. I guess I'm just wearing one hat, and that's the Frederick County hat is where I'm at. So it's our pocketbook, not Frederick Water's. The reserve we have is we have over $250, $300 million in projects, skype projects, and the East Pit project itself is a significant undertaking. So the reserve isn't fund money. I look at Bill, our finance guy right now, and that money is already spoken for. And the issue is if we can get a good interest rate on a loan, then we're going to save that money for the wastewater treatment plant, which is just around the corner. We are attempting the whole slide about Davenport Company. We are exploring getting a public debt rating for Frederick Water, which we don't currently have. Well, that sounds good, but first we need to know what that debt rating would be. And I have a question. And I have an idea, but I'm going to let the professionals tell us. And then if we had it, could we lower our cost of borrowing, which would be future borrowings, which perhaps for East Pit would come up, but also refinancing existing debt that we have on the balance sheet? All that is great news if it happens. We've just started the process, so we have a ways to go. But at the end of the day, that reserve you're looking at, between East Pit and the next wastewater plant, the northern plant, I mean, we're talking nine-figure projects. These are huge projects. So it does look good on the balance sheet, but it's definitely spoken for. I appreciate it. I would like to also add, because it is mind-boggling how many projects need to occur, and these plants like the Deal Water Treatment Plant and the Anderson, they are all in the same area. Right. They're all old plants. You're talking about going back to 1994. There's a lot of also I have concern about the future with respect to all of that. The water towers weren't even mentioned. So there are future plans for water towers that have to go in and then plans that have yet to be developed. There's a lot of system updates, upgrades, new that need to be put in place in order for water to flow. There's a lot of things that need to be done in order for the water authority to catch up with current-day needs and future demand. Any questions? I'd just like to ask a couple questions about economic development. So you touched on large users and what that might look like. My concern, at least unless I misinterpreted what you said, is that we have a lot of projects that we need to develop. I'm not sure how many. I don't think that we have any at one time. So, one, I'm going to make sure that we talk about, from an economic development standpoint, because I know you and I are keen on this, that's going to have to become part of the economic development strategy. We've got that concern, that roadblock that we've got to think about. sure we don't outpace your capability. But I remain interested in trying to understand, does that mean if there's a certain user that needs 35,000 gallons and one certain user that needs 120,000 gallons and a potential chocolate factory that might need I don't know how much? Are we at patting hand right there? We have over 4 million gallons of available capacity. We're in good shape. If you start, I want 10 of them tomorrow, that's like, okay, you've got to slow down. But there's a lot of capacity out there. Chocolate is not a heavy user at all, which is something we can easily accommodate. Perfect. Well, that's what I need to hear. Thanks. I'm going to follow up on that. Yeah. We'll take chocolate back because it hasn't come yet. Is that already accounted for, the use for that? It's not accounted for in terms of it's not part of our daily production, but we know it's out there, so it's available. Yeah, you know it's out there. Say it's just 30,000 gallons, whatever. What I'm worried about is some of these projects that have not started that are already approved, are we going to have a problem? No, we're in good shape. One of the slides I showed you is using Wyatt's numbers of 7,500 houses in the pipeline, we can easily accommodate that. So you're not going to get all those houses, but you can take some of that allocation, if you will, and easily accommodate businesses that show up. And then we talked about the, I call them the mushrooms, the towers, the water towers. You know, you've got some areas we talked about shady. Well, you talked about Sunnyside. I'm going to talk about Shady Elm, because we know we have a problem over there as well. You know, and what is the idea of these areas that are not, I'm not going to say underserved, but just don't have the pressure, what are the companies going to have to do? Are we going to have to pop up? That's part of the water master plan exercise. Putting up a tower definitely gives you storage, but it also gives you pressure. But sometimes you can also address it by putting another water pipe in the ground. Okay. We constantly promote looped systems, because if you have a looped system, you have better water flow. You've got redundancy. So if we have areas identified in the master plan that says water flow is not there, well, put a pipe in the ground. You get water flow. Elevation becomes the challenge. But the Shady Elm is not an elevation issue. It's just a pipe. It's a case where the pipes weren't oversized adequately 20 years ago. And then are you working with plants? Planting staff. When do you talk when it comes to development? When someone's going to bring it. A developer may be starting to talk about bringing a project in. When are you notified and given? When the rezoning comment gets pushed out for a comment. See, I think that's a problem. I really do. Because then now, you know, I think that we need to be doing a better job of planning. And that's on everybody to do that. You know, that goes, well, we talk about that. Because, again, we may have. Somebody coming in that's got a particular piece of land that they're saying, that's where I want to put my factory. And there's no way you can service them. You know, so I think we needed. That'll be with the master plan, I'm assuming. So I'm looking forward to this. But, Mr. Chair, we also have Wyatt attending our planning meetings. And he always has an opportunity to tell us what he sees in the pipeline. So that even before the comment comes to the director, we're getting a little heads up that, hey, this project looks like it's starting to move. So we're going to have to move it forward. So it's good that Wyatt's attending. He's attended just about every meeting. Yeah, Wyatt attends everything. And Wyatt is worth his weight in gold. And we just want to do what we can to make sure we take care of Wyatt. Because, I mean, this community is very lucky to have him here. But I just think that for us, this goes along. We really are making a conscious effort of trying to plan now, to make sure we can help our county and plan ahead, whether it's EDA, growth, what have you. In order to do that, we've got to be working better with you. So, Mr. Chairman, on the topic of economic development, and to all the points that have been made here, I personally think that it would be helpful if you all were provided a timetable with respect to these projects. Because there is this discussion in the presentation with respect to capacity and storage. But there is a difference between what can be provided today with the existing treatment facilities and so on and so forth, and what will be able to be provided, supplied. Three years from now, five years from now, ten years from now. And I think for the purpose of economic development and planning, that that needs to be provided to everyone. One thing I talked to Eric about, we floated the idea. I think that, well, we should have a meeting again in six months. So we refer to this as state of the water, right? And I think it's just, it helps the communication. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So I think obviously we're going to be sending questions back and forth, but I think this is a great way of showing the community we really are trying to work and do the right thing for everyone. I understand Frederick Water has their customers, but at the end of the day, we're looking out for all of the county and trying to figure this thing out. So we need to be working together on this. I'll just ask, the other side of the table, is there anything you guys need from us? What would help? What would help? you guys in your operations hearing hearing maybe i wouldn't call them frustrations but concerns from this side to to make sure that we're trying to incentivize development or whatever to make sure that we've got the the residents of frederick county the best interest well i do think on the southern portion of the county you know this is a very large county there have been recent activities occurring that reflect that there may be more development that could possibly occur occur in that area that wasn't really planned for before and so there needs to be discussions had i think even before this master plan comes out the the water board's master plan uh because you all have some dynamics shifting and you also have specific economic development interests you've alluded to in terms of certain areas of the county that you would like to target for additional industrial parks and so on and so forth everybody good this is great eric thank you i really appreciate you know the way this worked and and i got a chance to meet with tom and marty and everyone you know bob wells right here he was in that meeting and it was a good meeting it was a great meeting and we just want to keep this conversation going so we appreciate all that frederick water does and you're doing and just know that we are here to support and we just want to be a good partner in working with you so all right all right everybody have a great evening we we won't we're gonna make we got a hard job to do thank you all my time you
