Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-03-25
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=338
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you That's what I think you're probably thinking. That's what I think you're probably thinking. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Good evening. I call to order the Board of Supervisors, Frederick County Board of Supervisors, Wednesday, March 25, 2026, meeting to order. We have before us tonight my pastor, Pastor Ernie Poland, Second Opec and Presbyterian Church, who will offer the invocation. If you all would please stand. . . . Gracious and merciful God, we know that you preside over the chaos of a supernova. And yet, you also preside over the delicacy of an apple blossom. And we ask, Lord God, that now you would bless us as we participate in your gift of democracy, where some speak about and everyone hears. And we pray, Lord God, that the deliberations and decisions made by these men and women before us might be pleasing unto you and might benefit all of the citizenry of Frederick County. We ask this, Lord God, in the precious name of your Son and our Savior, Jesus the Christ, and together, all God's people say, Amen. Thank you, Ernie. . Please stand and please and face your flag. . . Through the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one Nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. . Thank you, folks. OK, board, adoption of the agenda, how would you like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we adopt the agenda, I've got a motion. Second. Got a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Okay. We have an agenda. Perfect. Citizens' comments. That's what's up next. Now, this is for agenda items that are not subject to a public hearing. Okay? So, anybody would like to come forward? Madam Clerk, do we have anybody? Elizabeth Ehler. Hey, y'all. Elizabeth Ehler, Back Creek. Ehler is my family name, and we've been Virginians before we were Americans. We pledged our allegiance under God to this country with liberty and justice for all. Not to business, not to budget. Today, you guys are determining if you're going to open up a public forum to converse with the community and the people about data centers, about life, about our community. I've been witness and privileged to deal and watch all the county and community planners work together and collaborate. I've learned so much in this process, and I'm just so proud of what y'all are doing in Frederick County, and I want to continue that beautiful legacy forward. I think that Wyatt and John and all the team can compose a beautiful presentation of letting us know where we're at in this county, what's our budget, where's our industry shortfalls, why we're choosing the path that we are forward, opening up a conversation to the community gives us an understanding of what people need and what they want out of our lives here together. I know that you found obstacles in decorum, the last one, and I wanted to remind us all that we're country folk out here. We don't like being talked at and we don't like being treaded on, but we're salt of the earth. And I think that we deal with life around round tables, on porches and pews, okay? And so putting us all in a room, and I think that's what we're doing. Putting us all in a room where we've been feeling disempowered, unheard, tread on, it gets our energy up. It gets us all kind of fussed up. But I think we could do better together. I think that as I've learned through this process, we've been able to build more conversations with understanding and clarity and transparency, and that can lead us down paths we haven't even discovered yet together. Why does this conversation matter? Y'all sit in seats of elected power. It's a massive responsibility. It's a duty. One that I honor. And I know the weight of that. And I think that you'll find that the power you wield, if you do it for the people, always, over profit, you're going to find a path forward that feels soulful, connected, and community-oriented in ways that we haven't even been able to discover. We need to bring back the old ways. We have old skills, old ways of doing business, new minds. We can invite ways to break bread together. We can invite ways to redefine values, show leadership, and come together as a community in ways that other people don't have that opportunity to do. And we need to do it now. The world around us is falling apart. If we stand together, if we stand in community together and in conversation, we've got a chance at this thing. Me as a mother, I want to see a future for my children in beautiful air, beautiful mountains, bugs, flowers, and the like. So I just appreciate your time, and I hope you consider that. Have a good day. Thank you, ma'am. Jennifer Fry. Good evening. My name is Jennifer. I'm from the Opecan District. While most of us were living our lives tracked, a land acquisition firm was already here. They came quietly, approaching landowners one at a time. Demarchi Spears, owner of Trumpet Vine, a man who has been working for the Opecan District for over a decade, was one of the first to come to the Opecan District. He was a former member of the Trumpet Vine, a man who has spent more than 30 years building a farm, was required to sign an NDA just to find out what was happening on the property surrounding three sides of his farm. Think about that. He had to sign a legal agreement with a billion dollar corporations before they would even tell him what they were planning to do to his farm. That is not how you treat a neighbor. That is how you silence one. In June, you denied TRAC's application stating they needed more studies and information, and nine months have passed. What did those studies show? We heard rumors that they may be withdrawing their proposal, but nobody knows. While you studied and stalled, Mr. Spears lost money, not because of a data center was being built, but because of uncertainty you allowed to hang over this community. Brides stopped booking Trumpet Vine. A man who repeatedly opened his farm to multiple cancer fundraisers, FFA student meetings, Sharando High School when COVID took their prom and homecoming, lost a year of his business to questions that were refused to be answered honestly. He is not alone. Farms across the country and right here in our community are being bullied. Landowners are being forced to sign NDAs just to find out what is happening on their own property. And once they sign, they can't speak out. They are losing family farms not because they want to sell, but because they are being pressured to sell through tactics they can't afford to fight. By million and billion dollar corporations with unlimited legal resources. That is what we are saying yes to when we say yes to data centers. This is not economic development. This is coercion. This is predatory. And this is what the board has been silent about. The community showed up last month expecting answers and you did not. You sent electric and water companies to deliver an hour long pro data center presentation. At that meeting I stood in a room and asked point blank if anyone in this county had signed NDAs over the data center and was told no. I want to address the gas lighting. We keep being told that data centers are higher taxes. If we say no, we owe you a solution to the budget shortfall. We do not. Saying no to data centers does not obligate this community to become your accountants. Figure out the spending problem or we will do what one would do in an unhealthy relationship and end it. We hold you accountable every vote, every post, every statement. If you will not represent the people who elected you, we will work to replace you. And to my community. To everyone watching from behind a computer screen saying there is nothing we can do, get up and fight. Other communities have stopped projects exactly like this one. We have the same options. We have the same opportunity but only if we show up. The mama bears in this county are not backing down. We are not going away. We treat this as a direct threat on our children's lives and will respond accordingly. You guys couldn't find someone to hold the second meeting, the experts that you needed. Frederick County Coalition did. They are holding a meeting on April 15th. And we would like to invite all of you out to Trumpet Vine to the people we are flying in. Thank you, ma'am. I asked you a question before about the data centers. Thank you. And I would like to know if anyone in this county has signed NDAs with the data centers. Thank you, ma'am. Are you refusing to answer? Yes. We are not allowed to respond back and I am asking you to sit down now. Okay. Thank you. Demarchi Spears. Hang on, Demarchi. Hang on. Come on up, buddy. Folks, this is a business meeting. This is not a pep rally. Don't do that. People are up here. They can speak. They can say what they want. But we are running a business meeting. Thank you. Demarchi. Hi. My name is Demarchi Spears. I'm Back Creek District. I have an agribusiness farm in Back Creek. As she spoke of, just want to voice my opinion and just say that, you know, there has to be other ways. The data center industry is, there's too many negatives, too many bad things. Yes, it's a lot of money. But I don't think that's going to be the fix it for us. That's about all I have. Just wanted to voice my opinion. Thanks, Demarchi. Tony Cole. Tony Cole, Back Creek District. I think most of you up here know me. So thank you for your time tonight. I just wanted to address something. I read some letters to the editor and spent a tremendous amount of time reading about data centers and what they're doing. I'm a big fan. I'm a big fan of data centers and what they're doing to communities across the United States. And the term, of course, NIMBY comes up and bananas, you know, build absolutely nothing anywhere. I can't remember the S. But nevertheless, it's really interesting to see that. And I wanted to just give you an example. When my wife and I got stationed here in 1984 in Virginia, we decided, you know, this might be a place we wanted to retire. And we did. So and we, you know, brought our kids out here and spent a lot of great time in this valley and just loved it. And we, when we finally retired, we moved out here. But before we moved out here, we looked at the comprehensive plan. We looked at the zoning. We looked at the properties that we were interested in. And we bought the property based on that comprehensive plan and zoning. So people can say, oh, you just don't want it in your backyard. But I think it's really important to think about, you know, what you're building if a data center comes in. So I looked at all of that before I bought. And I know many of my neighbors did. So I'd just like you to think about that. What happens then if you change the zoning and you let a data center come in? And I know you denied it the first time and I hope you do again. But just think about that. So what can we rely on then when we pick another place to live? What can you rely on? Because if you've looked at the comprehensive plan, you looked at the zoning, you went and bought another place, what's to say that zoning doesn't get changed and another one goes in? Where does it stop? Today we see, you know, a thing from the planning commission, and I know they're just posting what they're required to, but about power systems. Going into rural zones. So from a developer's representative is how it was phrased, is what the request is from. When does that stop? Let's take industrial and keep it in currently zoned industrial areas and not put industrial things in rural areas and certainly not change the zoning. Because if not, you know, when does it end? I mean, can we ever find a place? How do you find a place that, okay, there's no gas lines, there's no major power lines near here, I think I might be safe. Oh, I don't know. I think I'm going to need a lot of water here and where are these new lines going to go from, you know, a PJM? So it's very, very difficult. My wife doesn't come to these because she's so angry and just can't handle it. She's been upset since the first TRAC proposal came out, since we did our due diligence before we bought our place. So as people said, DeMarci and others, people are angry, you know? You just can't rest because you're just waiting for that other shoe to drop. So I just hope we can get to a place, you know, where we can get things resolved and understand what's coming and what isn't. coming and what isn't coming and I hope I hope that you do the right thing and stop those things from moving into rural and agricultural areas they just shouldn't be there people should be able to rely on the comprehensive plan and the current zoning so thank you thanks sir Aaron Fox Aaron Fox Back Creek District thank you to those responsible for making it so data centers require a conditional use permit and for revising ordinance your jobs aren't easy one of the difficulties is adapting to rapid changes like these I respect your forethought your diligence and trying to protect our county from what has happened elsewhere you have looked into noise and setbacks but we were told by mr. Klein from planning at April 9th 2025 meeting here that the updated ordinance is quote very similar to our neighbors in Fairfax and Loudoun counties etc but we specifically want to avoid emulating these neighbors at the March 12th 2025 meeting supervisor Wells said and I quote every time I talked to someone from Loudoun County the biggest thing is the noise of the generators end quote a board member there suggested researching and finding ways to mitigate that not to copy it setbacks adversely impact in various ways the new 200-foot setback is just a minimum but those of us who live near proposed sites don't think that it's enough and we don't want to leave it up to discretion another concern that hasn't been addressed yet are the health impacts of air quality and pollution from generators at the April 9th 2025 meeting chairman said about this concern, quote, I think it's absolutely fair that we think about that, end quote. Mr. Pearson from planning said at the info meeting that shall not be named that generators would be a concern for anyone with respiratory issues living nearby. We need to research usage, risks, and add protections because who defines when it's actually necessary to run generators? The data centers? How long does it take for health problems to be acknowledged and then resolved? As far as electricity goes, they require massive power and new infrastructure. There are state and local level changes that need to be put in place to protect citizens and our resources. There's also a legal precedent when excessive power has been used or has been consumed in light industrial zones. Is the zoning even appropriate here, so near our homes and farms? At the March 12, 2025 meeting, Chairman Ludwig also said that the changes were, quote, to regulate that business so we have the ability to first of all set requirements that we think would, that you all think would be reasonable for people in the vicinity. And he said we're trying to adapt to this new industry. He goes on to say to look at last year's data, quote, we're trying to adapt to this new industry. That is the key group of people in the city. I believe that what's really important around that is that we're doing everything possible with all the resources on does Оut Glovo Basketball and other neighbors and avoid those problems here by putting it in code. Mr. Kleine from planning also called it a new industry in reference to increased setbacks possibly being appropriate. Just before the vote to adopt the changes for data centers, Chairman Ludwig said, quote, I personally will vote in favor that way we have some protections established. There's no reason we can't go back and look at any of the concerns raised here tonight to see if we need an ordinance, end quote. Supervisor Dunn also asked, just for the record, this can be further amended as we go ahead. David Dunn, the board chair's superintendent. along, correct? So I suggest a referendum where citizens directly vote on if current ordinance and zoning for data centers is appropriate. Then a moratorium while new ordinances are put in place for this new and rapidly changing industry with a pretty sketchy track record in the U.S. I hope that I've demonstrated that board members and members of planning said that it's reasonable to look at new concerns and revisit existing ones. I didn't use any names here tonight to call anybody out, just to try to legitimize codifying our concerns. Thank you, ma'am. Kurt Krieger. Kurt Krieger. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, my name is Kurt Krieger. I live in the Back Creek Magisterial District. I've distributed a report that I prepared to share with you, and it has to do with the public comments in advance of the February 24th meeting at Sharando High School. It also includes all the comments received at the meeting, February 24th. And then for those that were planning on attending the February 26th meeting and emailed comments in. I reviewed those. I'm sure you've all heard the comments. I think it's important to note that the comments received by the board and the staff and the board members are very informative. They provided a lot of information to me, as well. Thanks to the county staff, they provided those to me in a redacted form. And there were 272 comments received. And I think it's instructive to highlight the greatest concern had to do with water, probably not a big surprise. The second greatest concern had to do with power availability, resilience, and rates. The third was the lack of transparency. The fourth had to do with noise pollution, both low frequency and volume. The fourth had to do with the lack of veracity and transparency. And the fifth had to do with, excuse me, the reverse. The planning, proffers, and code enforcement were of concern. And the last that I highlighted here had to do with the lack of transparency. I'd like to focus on the last two points. The report sort of rolls those up. To me, and I read each one of these comments, and I must say that out of the 272 comments, some people had one question with eight subparts, so I included all those in this roll-up. I encourage you to do the same thing. I would say that the people of Frederick County are extremely smart, and people have legitimate questions about things that will affect their quality of life, their home, their investments, their families, and children. But the reason I want to speak a little bit about the question of veracity is that a lot of people had concerns about conflicts of interest, perceived conflicts of interest, and self-dealing between members of the board, people in development, as well as the end users, the data centers. And I think as you think about the next data center meeting or meetings, that you need to try to address that concern about people. I'm sorry. I should be the first to continue. In the first place, I think the level playing field of this work, and I think that people's perceptions about there not being a level playing field, and that things are happening behind closed doors without the full light of day shining on them. I'm not accusing anybody of anything untoward, and I would say that there have been good examples of supervisor Aikens recused himself from the last review, stood down, left the room. That's exactly as it should be, and there is a procedure for people that might have a concern. I want to make sure that you know. make sure that you avail yourself of that information. Thank you very much. Thank you. Alexander Ritter. Five days ago. Sir, name and manager of district, please, sir. My name is Alexander Ritter. I'm a member of the Apecan district. Five days ago on March 20th, a fiscal impact analysis was published on the county's website. It showed that data centers generate over a billion dollars annually in surplus. I'm not questioning the analysis or its numbers. Data centers generate revenue. What I am questioning is the county's insistence that data centers can solve the fiscal year 2027 shortfall because they cannot. Repeatedly, members of this board. And some have written publicly have described data centers as a game changer. They have been marketed to residents as a solution to our fiscal crisis. But what rarely comes up in that conversation is the timeline from CUPs to rezoning to construction to operation. We are not talking about revenue that we will have in our next budget cycle. We're talking about revenue that begins at best, you know, in two to three years or more. Our shortfall is. A 2027 problem, not a fiscal year 2029 or 2030 problem. So if data centers cannot bridge that gap immediately, why are they being marketed as though they can? And if the real solution lies elsewhere, why aren't we pursuing alternatives that align with what residents have already said they want? This dishonesty is part of how we arrived here. For several years, this board rated our capital fund and hit tax increases behind reassessments. They. They promised lower taxes and on paper delivered. But they were never honest about the cost of residential growth that has outpaced our commercial tax base. Construction was construction approved before any serious fiscal impact analysis was done. And when the bill came due, what was the answer? Ask our farmers to hand over their land to loud and developers in exchange for revenue that won't materialize for years. That is not fiscal responsibility. The deeper question is who the board serves. Several members would have personally benefited from keeping taxes artificially low while property values rose. Supervisor Akins. And our chairman, who works for FCN Inc., an IT company that explicitly lists data centers, services, and its operations, commented to another tech executive on LinkedIn. We've talked about this. This is what I'm dealing with in my county. I would like to know what that conversation contained and why a sitting supervisor is talking with outside industry interests. направления Psalm a public hearing. State your name as care district. Please stand. Starbucks? No. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Willie Deutsch. I reside in the Opec District. I wanted to speak to item 13A. I understand it's only up for information, but this item would allow for zoning ordinance to allow battery energy storage systems with a conditional use permit, industrial zonings, and the RA zoning district. Right now, we're going through the comprehensive plan discussion. We're talking about what do we want in different areas. But underlying all of that is what are the meanings of the terms we're talking about. And if we're going to redefine a rural area to include battery storage, that's just disingenuous. Let's just call an area where we're going to have batteries industrial zoning, light industry. We have zonings already for that. But nobody would consider that a rural area would be a battery storage area. But also, that goes back to why are we putting solar fields in rural areas? We have to be consistent on what our definitions actually mean that actually matters. Otherwise, we redefine things out of existence. So stick to keeping things under categories that actually make sense to normal human beings. But also, going to our definitions and consistency and honestly gaslighting. I was shocked when this board went and decided to attack the citizenry for speaking up at the data center forum. And the board did it under the disguise of civility. Look, hearing from the public is part of this board's job. But if you're going to go ahead and do it under the disguise of civility, then ask board members to do the same thing. Because at the February meeting where the Madison project was approved, one of the members attacked the Lake Frederick community as one of the largest group of squawkers in the county. And this board sat back and was fine with that. So if you're going to attack the citizens for being uncivil, at least police yourselves. Because otherwise it looks like it's just viewpoint discrimination. So please be consistent when you're pushing for civility. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. My name is Vicki Michaels and I am from the Stonewall District. I just want to say that I'm a member of the Stonewall District. I'm a member of the Stonewall District. I'm a member of the Stonewall District. I just want to say how disappointed I was when the February 26th meeting was canceled. I understand that there were issues with the 24th meeting. I didn't attend that meeting because I was going when my group would be. But I was so disappointed and it really felt like I was having my voice robbed. And I guess the reason why I took it so hard is because I get to come to the county of Frederick, to your meeting, and have you have a prayer beforehand. And say the Pledge of Allegiance. Things that are important to me. Things that make me proud of the county that I live in. And it just, it felt like I was being robbed as though I was no longer living in Frederick County. So please follow through with having the second group of meetings at least. And at those meetings, provide information not from what I hear was just propaganda. And again, I wasn't there. I'm only going from what I read. But please allow us to have the opportunity to be involved in your decision making. Because that's the county that I came from. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Hello. Sharon Plummer from Back Creek District. I'd just like to publicly oppose the data centers until further analysis. There was just an article about Loudoun County where I moved from. First of all, I'd like to challenge. Somebody to drive through Loudoun County now. Because it's unrecognizable with all of the data centers. There was an article published. They're having some sound problems. They can't figure out why the data center is making so much noise. And they can't figure out how to mitigate it. And it's disturbing actually the residents near the data center. As well as the wildlife, et cetera. And so there's things like that that we're still learning how to coexist with these needs of the current information technology. Demands that we have. But it can do permanent damage if you try to develop something that we don't understand fully. So I know that we're in a modern era. And we're growing. And things need to evolve. But we have a responsibility to do it wisely. And to do the proper studies. And collaborate so that we can find a way that we can all live together with the technology. And keep our lives safe. And keep our lives safe. And keep our lives safe. And try to protect our rural atmosphere here in Frederick. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Hello. My name is Jack Tinsley. I'm in Gainesboro District. I didn't prepare a comment ahead of time. But maybe I've got three things to say. One is, for day after day after day, all I do is hear from people. hear people talk about how they hate data centers, not just here, but across the entire country. Communities are always fighting against them. Maybe last week, the week before, my dad lives in Berkeley County. I went to high school there. I graduated there. I went to high school in Millbrook and Jameswood, moved around a lot. But I went to the, they had, what, 300 people showed up to talk about the data center they're planning there, 575 acres. And not a single person spoke in any kind of support of the data centers. And I'm realizing that I have not heard anyone speak in support of the data centers as far as the people who live here are concerned. So, that's one thing. The other thing is, I understand that revenue is important. But I just kind of think of, like, would I burn my house down in order to get an insurance check that's going to last me until what? So, I don't think I would do that. And also, a special... especially if it's going to affect my neighbor's quality of life. I really think that that is very irresponsible. And just really not neighborly or just being a good human being. That's kind of how I feel about these data centers. And it's more than a feeling. It's backed up by science and evidence. These things are really well documented that they're just really not helpful for any living creature on the face of the earth. So that's kind of my second point. Yeah, thank you. And the last thing is I have had a lot of opportunities to talk to a lot of different people, whether it's the city council members in Winchester, if it's some of you all here, if there are different county commissioners in Berkeley County. And I've got a friend who is an engineer for a large AI company. So I talk with a lot of people. And what I've come to understand is that these people who want to build, these data centers do not have people really lined up to actually rent the space. And if they do have people lined up, it's Meta or Amazon or Microsoft. And just to be really blunt, I hate all of those companies. I hate them. They're evil. They have been destroying our society for decades. And to think that we could put a house there for them to set up their centers and poison our land and our air and our water just to poison our minds and the minds of the children that are here infuriates me. There's no way that we should ever, ever let anything like this into our homes and where we live. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anybody else want to speak? Good evening. Dottie Stoudemire from the Shawnee District. You know, a thought occurred to me with folks talking about the last meeting, wanting transparency, knowing that you guys probably have these meetings in the schools. I know that you guys don't have equipment that can travel. So I was wondering, it's an interesting idea if coordination could happen between the schools and the county so that they could have the equipment. You could provide the IT and it could be recorded and uploaded. It's just a thought. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Adam Perkins and I live in Gansborough District. I'm going to make this very short and sweet for you all. This is off the county website. I want to remind you all of some of the things that are on the county website. This is the county website for the county's public education and education service. This is the county website for our local government. This government is concerned with long-range planning that protects our rural heritage and directs its future growth through planning. A government that looks for a future and implements plans to ensure that the quality of life for future generations is preserved. A government based on honesty, trust, integrity, and respect that understands the importance and clear communication and a willingness to listen. I have not seen any government that has not done this. a willingness to listen. I am not seeing a government that wants to protect our county for our future residents. We are selling it for short-term cash. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? Hi, my name is Leslie Spencer. I live in the Gainesboro District. I just want to say I stand with my community. I'm so proud of my community. Thank them all for all their smart ideas, especially Mrs. Fox. If our community could come together, we could have a poll or a survey. Even if we could study this idea for data centers on the next comprehensive plan cycle in 2032, that would be amazing to me as well. There's so much to learn. There's strong, strong ordinances to write. There's research that will come out when all these data centers are built. There's so much we could do. We could work on agritourism. We could work on all these great dreams. All of our neighbors are coming from Loudoun County to get away from these data centers. They live there. They sleep here. They don't want to sleep next to them. They're traumatized. There's so many things that we could think about for the future of our county. It's breaking us apart, and it's really sad to me. 15A is an idea I wanted to talk to tonight. I'm very cautious on this land use. I absolutely do not feel comfortable with it being an RA, and I would love to see battery storage, if we're going to do it at all, only for industrial zone land, even also in industrial zone land. I would love to help research some ideas for a living green roof system, like a garden, greenery on top to be one of the... zoning ordinance requirements for that use. I think that it could attract neighbors nearby, industrial mixed businesses, smart, high-wage companies to come and be neighbors if there's going to be industrial nearby storage. There's often a need for transitional zones in our industrial that's sitting right next to farmland or big commercial spaces, and there needs to be extra buffer zones, mixed-use businesses, small businesses. I think it could be a very vibrant place. If we're going to do something like that, then we can make an additional ask. I think that about a lot of things in Frederick County, even slowing down housing with amazing opportunities to create green spaces and more green infrastructure throughout the housing zoning ordinances as well. And I would also love to know who is this developer that called his representative to come represent him for the re-storage. Do they even live in Frederick County? Because farmland is for us. Farmland is for agritourism. It's for our families. It's for our food supply. It's for our beauty and our countryside. It's for our heritage. And I'd like to keep it that way. Thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else? All right. Good evening. My name is Ron Harrison. I believe I live in Shawnee District. We just moved here two weeks ago. I'm a retired IT consultant. And I always used to tell my clients that we're going to do a project. Let's not reinvent the wheel. Find someone that has done it and done it successfully and pattern yourselves after them. I understand you have a large deficit in the budget. I don't really care how you got it, but you do. Okay. We just moved here from Augusta County. Augusta County has a balanced budget. Find out how they did it. And they don't have any data centers. And I don't think they're considering any data centers either. Look outside of the area. Find ways to do it. There are other industries that you can bring here that will bring revenue and will not have the kind of severe impact that this technology will bring to this area. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? Okay. I'm going to close the citizens' comments. Board, next up is consent agenda. How would you like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we adopt a consent agenda as presented. Okay. I have a motion. I have a second. Is this a roll call vote? Supervisor Oates? Aye. Supervisor Warndorf? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Supervisor Eakins? Aye. Supervisor Grubemont? Aye. And the chair votes aye. All right. Consent agenda is approved. Next item up is Board of Supervisors comments. I'll look to my left first. Does anybody have a comment? Looks like good. How about to the right? Okay. We will move forward. County officials. Ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board of Supervisors. This is an ordinance that will bring the senior citizen tax relief program in line with recent increases to Social Security. So that persons with no change in their Social Security income are not placed in a different bracket for what they receive in terms of tax relief. So it is simply to reflect that change at the federal level. And Madam Commissioner is here as well to answer that. And Madam Commissioner is here as well to answer any questions. Does any Supervisor have a question? All right. This also requires a rollcall vote. Hey, you know, how about a motion first? Motion? I move Mr. Chairman that we accept this. Okay. I do have one question. Okay. Maybe staff can answer it. How is this communicated to senior citizens? Yes. Please speak. I apologize. just besides the media in a Thank You chairman Thank You board supervisor Orndorff we will advertise in the Winchester star we will also advertise in a few social media and news so to make sure currently we have about five hundred and seventy seven residents that have applied and we were just trying to make sure those folks stay within the parameters thank you do you also post this on the website pardon do you post this on the Frederick County website yes okay any other questions second needs a second and you second all right I got a motion I got a second now we need a roll call though supervisor Grouvenmont aye supervisor Akins aye supervisor Laro aye vice chair Wells aye supervisor Orndorff aye supervisor Oates aye and the chair votes aye okay we're good to go on that thank you next discussion of data center public information forum mr. Pearson I understand you're gonna be taking this one thank you mr. chairman I don't have a presentation for you all tonight my memo articulated kind of something that I'm not going to be able to do tonight but I'm going to be able to do it in a few minutes okay so we're gonna be taking this one thank you mr. chairman I don't have a presentation for you all tonight my memo articulated kind of something that I'm not going to do tonight but I'm going to be of the county County mainly because some of the panelists have declined to participate so to review we were able to include a noise consultant that the county has a contract for to review data center environmental noise assessments so they work for the county from a health perspective as the board requested we think that the folks at Piedmont Environmental Council would be well suited to address any of those concerns and they've been confirmed they're willing to participate our electrical providers have declined to continue to participate public water and sewer Frederick Water is willing to come back and join the panel again and then we don't have a representative from like an economic development perspective or from like industry support as far as data center coalition or somebody like that who has confirmed their willingness to attend so we're really seeking direction from the board from a meeting format perspective. The one conducted by the EDA at Churando, I think some of the frustrations we heard from citizens was their inability to just offer statements rather than ask questions as well as the fact that we were trying to answer the 272 questions that Kurt mentioned we had received online first. So I think we would suggest if we do it again we do probably two microphones and have the individuals in attendance be those asking questions and keep all of the panelists presentations as short as possible to explain who they are. Mr. Chairman seeking direction. Happy to answer any questions. Okay. I'm looking for the board. Anybody have a comment? I have a question for Mr. Pearson. Mr. Pearson I was looking at my own list of topics and Mr. Kriegers thank you sir for providing that list. You said that we had experts for noise health and water and do not have experts for electricity, transportation, economic impacts and other topics. Do we have staff that can speak on those topics? We can handle the transportation and at a low level I could handle the electrical and economic development side of it. Frankly it puts me in somewhat of an awkward position as my attempt is my role is to be your unbiased review entity for when these applications come forward. But I can speak to the power side of it relatively well. But not somebody who can go into specifics right now. All right. Thank you. Yeah. In my opinion and we've talked about this as a board we have failed the county. The county has failed everyone in this room and everybody not in this room and listening on the public messaging on what data centers could and couldn't do. couldn't do for the county, period. So, in my opinion, we don't, we have to have a second forum. The premise or how that's arranged, I would hope that it would be a conversation and that we speak on the things that we know. I do feel, and I may be the only person up here that feels this way, that the presentations that occurred last time were just attempting to inform the public of what we knew, but that's not the way it was taken and that's really unfortunate. We can attempt to do the same thing, but to Wyatt's point, I think what matters most is hearing what the citizens have to say and feel. And I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I don't know how, a gentleman spoke earlier that the community feels there's an unwillingness to listen and I can speak for myself that that's not true. I'm willing to listen, I'm willing to hear. I've met with lots of different people on this issue and I've left shaking hands and the feedback that I've received is that, you know what, thanks for the conversation. And I hope that we'll see each other again. And I hope that we'll see each other again. And I hope that we'll see each other again. And I hope that we can have that conversation and all of us learn, including ourselves up here, in the whole forum. All right. Anybody else on my left? Good. I'd like to make another comment. To Wyatt's question about the format type thing, like what do we want to see, what I would like to see is a very, very brief presentation on each topic, no more than five minutes. And if you're interested, I would like to have you in the room for a brief discussion of this. I'm going to go ahead and get into the presentation. So, we're going to have a discussion around the topic of the first five minutes, and in that presentation, some key facts, the concerns that we've heard, and any mitigating measures that we could do to mitigate the concerns. But very briefly, five minutes per topic, and probably no more than about 30 minutes total on the front end, and then we get to the statements of citizens and Q&A and discussion and just make it more robust with the less lengthy with the information up front. Thank you. All right. How about my right, Supervisor Oates? Yeah, I think we need to answer some questions because there's a lot of conspiracies out there. Yet I understand data centers bad, so is Facebook. A lot of groups on there saying a lot of things getting stirred up. For instance, water. I think everybody in this room is in agreement if a data center rolls in and says we need a million, two million gallons of water, hit the bricks. We're not going to do it. I don't see anybody up here that's going to agree to that. So they're going to have to be a low water user. And there's so many boxes to check that I think at the end of the day, I'd be surprised if one of you made it through or made it here. But the one lady talking about NDAs, since I've been a board member, I've never been approached once to sign an NDA. Haven't even spoken to a data center. So the track that people are talking about, to my knowledge, that all went away last December or so. It's not even around anymore. So a lot of these things that keep getting brought up is we need to answer these questions. I think maybe the forum would go a lot smoother if we're more upfront about what we're not even looking at and take that off the table so it keeps getting regurgitated. I think we need to get it over and over again out on social media. I mean, I'm thankful every day I don't get on social media and I'm not part of it. But I do think we need to have it. I wish we could do it to where, like, I could sit down with 20, 25 people at a time every night one week and just hash it out. But because when you get a lot of people into a room, it's never a good thing. I've seen it over and over. But we do need to have it. And when we do, please, everybody, don't shout, don't yell, don't applaud. It's there for information. It's there for us to hear you. It's we're showing or giving you the information we've learned. It's not a selling point. Not one of us up here ever thought, hey, we're going to accept a data center and balance your budget this year. Well, that's not true. Not one person up here thinks that. Even if somehow it does work out, it doesn't mean we're going to have to give up on that. But if somehow it did happen, you're looking at five, six years for the thing to get built. I mean, we've got five or six years of dealing with our budget every year. So we're not looking at this thing as a way to balance a budget. Anyway, that's my two cents. I think we need to answer a few basic questions to form and get a lot of this misinformation off the table and just be honest where we're at. Anybody else? Mr. Chairman, over here. Yes, sir. Yeah, I agree with Mr. Oates that when you do it in a smaller form, it's better. I held a town hall the other night. I had a great mix of people in the room, and we had very civil dialogue about a lot of different topics. And I really enjoyed that. And there were people in that room I don't always agree with. And yet, we had some unanswered questions. We had some aha moments between us. And I think that's what conversation can do. The big group setting, the way it functioned wasn't well. So how do we make that better? I don't know how we're going to answer this, Mr. Pearson, in terms of what can be the right form. I think people want to be heard. So we can make that happen. We're going to have to figure out how we're going to do it. So we're going to have to figure out how we're going to do it. And then, we have to come up with a plan that we can change. And then, I think that's going to be the focus of what we're going to do. I think people want to be heard. So we can make that happen. I think that's what we're going to do. Mr. Pearson? Thank you, Chairman. Thank you. Thank you, Chairman. Thank you. microphone you step up you you say what you want to say but again I agree with Mr. Oates and there's been I don't think anybody here thinks there's this is a silver bullet for today we're all working on a budget we're all realistic we all understand long-term planning and that's why we have the staff working on long-term planning so anyway yeah I appreciate that but I think smaller forms are better easier to converse and make things a lot more civil thank you anybody else okay here's here's my two cents here's what I'm going to throw out to the board I've talked to Mr. Pearson I've already done a couple meetings like this as well where people want to hear they want to hear a little bit and they want to be able to speak so Mr. Pearson and I'll get the board's approval on this my take is just what Supervisor Lear was saying conversation stays within a half hour we have who we have up there on that stage to represent you have two microphones sitting up there and let the people ask the questions because as the people ask the questions the people are going to get the answers that they're looking for that are sitting in that room so that that would be my suggestion I think I'd add to that is I think we're going to have such a turnout we probably need to limit the question to like a minute minute and a half we're going to be there till nine o'clock in the morning yeah and that that's very true that's very true so just so then just to clarify you all are fine with a panel that's comprised of experts from noise health public water sewer and planning as our panel composition to move forward do you want us to keep trying to find additional experts if they don't want to step up they don't want to step up okay so let's go with what we got I mean did the folks want to hear they want to hear from whatever experts we can bring forward so I mean that's the how I think it has to be done so do you need a motion or anything I think that's adequate direction I don't think we need a motion thank you sir yes sir so let's get it scheduled and folks you hear it you know you have your opportunity but I do agree with what just what Supervisor Lear said I said this earlier when we had the the citizens comments please show just show civility and let the questions let let the questions give us as much time as you can the clapping and everything it slows things down I understand that this is a very very important subject but the more time you can give us the more time people can ask questions the more answers that can be given okay so that's all I'm asking for I think that's an appropriate thing okay so we're on to the next thing we don't have any appointments committee business public hearings okay hello there mr. Vallhofer good evening supervisors Well, tonight I get to present the sort of the tail end of the budget as we go into our budget hearing. And as you know, this was a very challenging year with the budget. We started out in a pretty tough spot and had a lot of challenges to solve the budget. And I have to tell you all, I was very impressed with everything that went on during this budget. My many, many years of doing budget, this is one of the most impressive budget groups and results that I have seen in my career. When we started this budget, the real challenge was is how do we maintain the level of services we want to maintain and bridge a significant gap? The idea is maintain our core services. Education was very important. Public safety, which was highlighted during the budget. Capital infrastructure was discussed quite a bit. And the last thing was workforce value, which meant pay increases for employees, training, et cetera, et cetera. And that was our challenges going in. Real quickly, a summary of the schedule was from October to December, our departments prepare the budget. From December to January, we compile those requests. From January to March, we make those presentations to the supervisors. March 25th, which is tonight, I'm making this presentation. April 8th. It comes up for adoption. And on July 1st, the new budget will begin. So this is where we started with our budget. And we had, when we went into this, we started with a $41.3 million hole. Our requested spending far exceeded our revenues starting the budget process. So it was a great challenge. So the first place we went to to look, the first place you always go to in a budget is we went to expenses. So this is sort of a summary of what we did with expenses. When you look up there at the county, you'll see that from the county operating expenses, it went from 127.9 to 127.9. Well, we actually reduced a lot of the operating expenses. But through the course of the budget, we added some other items, which will be covered later. We reduced the school budget request by $9 million. And let me say, we didn't reduce the school budget. We reduced their requested increase. That gets to be confusing sometimes. Outside of that, we reduced the budget. We reduced the budget for the state agencies. We reduced $100,000. But we also added an additional $1.2 million to the transportation funds because this board has made it clear they want to keep moving forward with addressing our infrastructure issues. Capital, we reduced our capital from $12.1 million down to $6.6 million. The schools, we actually increased their requests. The 4.8 is actually what they call their tier one or level one ordinary capital expenditures, HVAC systems, security. And we're going to go through that. We're going to go through that. We're going to go through the thank you to all those that took place digest and we'll get to that. Then we did reduce the market value reduction. We reduced the healthcare budget costs by a third of what they塊 for Dire DHP 0.4 million. We reduced our health insurance costs 0.7 million. We did $1.2 million in department head reductions. reduction in the school's request for an increase in their budget. What we added was a adjustment for fire and police. We went from a 3% to a 7% for both of those. We also included two new full-time employees. I believe those are both over in the public works and have to do with the MS4 program which was discussed during our workshops. We had added an additional $70,000 for the August primary. I think we've added it subsequent to this meeting because there just wasn't enough money in there to cover those, cover that election. We added in there $200,000. This is an estimate of course. We'll have to find out what the real cost is. $200,000 for staff salary survey. It's been five years since we did the last one. We did the 1.65 million for school capital for buses and the 1.2 million for transportation. So this is a look at the school's budget. I'm going to start with the school budget. I'm going to start with the school budget. I'm going to send you all out an email copy of this actual presentation with all the notes below it so you'll have all the verbiage that goes along with it in case I forget to say something that was written down. If you look at fiscal year 26, it doesn't have it listed up there, but last year for the schools, their budget increased in total 3.8%. This year they requested an $18 million increase in their budget. We reduced that significantly, but even with the reduction, we're still at $1.2 million. So we're going to have to look at that. And their budget this year increases 9.1%. So it was a significant increase in the school budget, one of the largest increases in the last several years. When you look at the county itself, you will see that our total increase from last year was 4.8%. I will tell you, the majority of that was actually in the salary increases. If you look at the 3% salary increases, about $800,000. That's what we're looking at. That's is about 800,000 per 1%, so that's 2.4 million, plus you had another 1.2 million for the extra increase in fire and police. So the lion's share of that 4.8% was in salaries. So there were significant cuts, and it kept the budget increase very, very low for the county. So once we did that, by working on expenses, we brought that 41 million down to $29.6 million whole. So we had to go work on that number next. And I say we, it was primarily you all that did all the work on this. So the first place to look now is, what do you do? Where do you look for revenues or sources of funding? And you see a list on the left there, which lists all your options you had at looking at revenue sources, real estate tax, personal property tax, meals tax, tourist tax, and the vehicle decal fee. When you look at our revenue combinations, you will see it there that 89% of our revenues come from taxes. It's our primary source of revenues. So after the last budget workshop, these were the numbers we came up with. And if you look at it, it was the real estate tax, 48 cents to 53, which was 9 million. Personal property was the 12 cent increase went from 4.23 to 4.35, mills tax 4 to 6%, tourist tax 3.5 to 6%. Of course, you realize 1.5% of that has to be used for tourism. The other 5% can go into the 0.5% can go to the county. And then the vehicle license decal fee went from 25 to 30. That still wasn't sufficient. So what we did is we found other sources of revenue going into our funds. And we used 5.5 $3 million from our proffers, $500,000 from the animal shelter fund, and we used $7.5 million from our other reserves, our capital reserves, which is primarily our capital fund. That gave us an additional $29.6 million. So what you look at is when the board was addressing this issue, they looked at all three areas of how to deal with this to get from $41.3 million deficit to a balanced budget. This summarizes how we got there, but actually this here is the number everyone always asks about when we go through this process. After going through all these numbers, it was frequently brought up by this board, what will our capital fund be after doing all these things? Here is a breakdown of the capital fund. We were using $6.4 million. Plus, $1.1 million, which brings it down to $23.5 million. Below that, the next numbers being removed are committed funds in that capital fund, which is $8.3 million for the fire station, $2.8 million, which is a matching grant amount for the Charlestown park, and then we used $5 million to finish up the radio project. That leaves you with your capital fund based on a five cent property tax, or before the five cent tax, of $7.4 million. If you were to go with the five cent increase in real estate tax, that would add another $2.4 million. This board stated to park this money actually in the supervisor contingency fund, so it would sit in that fund where the supervisors could use it if they so desired next year. If not, the majority of that would be rolled over into your capital fund. It wouldn't be the exact same amount because that formula has to be recreated each year based on the five cent increase in real estate tax. It's based on what your actual total fund balance is. At the four cent real estate tax, it's actually $600,000 to be rolled over. And I have to go back a step because I forgot to state one item. We did have to make one change since we met in the last workshop. Part of what we did is for the library fund, we used $175,000 proffers to cover what was listed in their large sheet of capital funds. Well, that money actually came from an endowment. So there was no way to replace that money and then put that money back into operating. So if we were to reduce that $175,000, that would impact their salary increases for their employees. So by correcting that, that number would actually be more like $2.2 million and the bottom one would be $400,000. This is to give you an idea of where we rank amongst similar-sized governments or adjacent governments. And right now, our real estate tax is at the 48 cents. You add the five cents to that, that puts you at 53. So it really wouldn't change where you are ranked to those other governments listed there. But that's where Frederick County is ranked now when it comes to real estate taxes. A question that was brought up often, what are the consequences on these taxes on the value of a person's home? You have the list here. I'm only going to bring up the $350,000. I think that's close to the median price, although it may be $400,000 now. But the five-cent increase in taxes would add $175 to a person's yearly bill for property taxes at a five-cent increase. Personal property taxes. And I'll start out by stating, because some of the board members may not know this, but our personal property tax a little over two years ago was actually $4.86. And it was reduced by the board because they had those high increases in the value of cars. So currently now it is $4.23. With the 12 cents, it would go up to $4.45, which would put you right below Clark County. And then the $4.45 would go up to $4.45. And then the $4.35 would go up to $4.35 at your rate for the personal property tax. $4.35. $4.35, excuse me. So by using a combination of existing funds and reserves, by the taxes, and by reducing expenses, the board was able to balance the budget this year, going from the $41.3 million deficit to a balanced budget. And at five cents, it's not only a balanced budget. It provides a perfect balance of the budget. And the budget is $2.2 million. So that's a good number. And then the $4.35, which is approximately $2.2 million, that would go into your supervisor contingency, which would eventually roll into your capital fund. I know one of the objectives of this board through the process was to ensure that capital fund was sufficient for future capital because this board wants to concentrate on getting infrastructure done. So that's why that money would be there if you decided to go at that rate. This just summarizes what I was saying. The adjustments, new revenue, profits and reserve, and reductions. And that's how you all were able to solve the significant budget hole we started out with. We believe with this budget, we are confident this budget enables us to go forward and continue to do good work and continue to improve the county, maintain our infrastructure. So this budget is not only about the budget. It's not only a balanced budget. When we started this out, this is actually a structurally balanced budget because it not only looks at this year, it makes adjustments as you're going forward and face future challenges coming to this county. I will tell you, I'll list some of the challenges coming up. So this was a tough budget. There was a lot of tough decisions that this board had to make. And a lot of those decisions this board had to make and the issues you were dealing with, you didn't create. You inherited those conditions as a board. And were faced with having to solve it. But there's still some more challenges that will be coming up. As you know, this year we pulled out the eight firefighters as part of our program to go to a mostly paid firefighter service. So that's eight firefighters. That will be coming back next year. They'll have to be dressed again. You still have a lot of items on there on fire equipment and fire station remodels coming up in the future. I don't remember the exact numbers. But when the school presented its budget, there are ten years left. And the school presented its budget. Their ten-year capital plan had a total cost of somewhere between $350 million to $400 million over ten years. Now, I think it's probably more realistic that's a 20-year plan. But that's still a lot of money that you're going to face coming up in the future. We are still dealing with the issue. And I know someone brought it up. I believe you mentioned it working at Frederick Water. Our inflation and cost increases in government are far more significant than you're looking at when you look at CPIs. That's just a fact of life. Next year, that debt service is going to start hitting that big bump. Next year, you're going to have an additional $4 million in debt service. The healthcare issue. Healthcare costs are skyrocketing everywhere. I know this board said we have to come up with a plan and find ways to address this. But that is an issue that has to be addressed going into the future. And then the really scary one is one that there's not a whole lot you can do about is, well, the good news is they're not in session anymore. But our legislature was just recently in session. As you know, it looks like you're going to have collective bargaining. You're going to have paid ADA. And I haven't researched all the bills. But there's one thing I do know. There wasn't any bill in there that I can remember that's really going to help us out much. So there are a lot of challenges coming up in the future. I was very impressed with what this board did with this budget. It was very challenging. I remember the very beginning going, wow, this is like a crisis. But this board addressed it. They solved it in the short term and took steps to actually address things going forward in the long term, which you still have a lot of challenges. And I want to thank Sharon and Missy and Melody because the truth of the matter is they did all this work. They put this all together and made the presentation, did all the work in the budget. I just get to come up here and talk about it. And we're here to answer any questions. You may have. Thank you, sir. Thank you all for all the work you put into this. Any questions? To my right. To my left. There you go. One other item. If I don't address this, Sharon will have a talk with me a little later. You were probably thinking I know you were. The one issue is if you remember that may be somewhat unresolved, you could address it tonight or you could address it at the next meeting is if you remember, I think we left off at the last meeting. There was a debate with the supervisors whether to go with the 5% real estate or the 4 cents. So that item is still out there unanswered. And obviously from finance, the sooner you do it, the better. But you can either do it tonight or you could do it in the two weeks on the night of the adoption. If you do it on the night of the adoption, we would address that by providing you with two different resolutions, each one with a different number. So it's whatever the board desires. What's the desire of the board? I'd like to hear the public input tonight before we make that decision. Perfect. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Okay. No more questions. We're going to have a public hearing. We're going to have a public hearing. I'm going to open it up in a minute. I'm talking about the questions for Mr. Bolhauer. All right. I'm going to go ahead and close the meeting. I now open up the public hearing for fiscal year 2026-2027 budget. Jimmy Roberts. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. I'm Jimmy Roberts, executive director of Seniors First. And I have one of our board members here representing Frederick County, Ms. Deanne Kenney. I am here today on behalf of Seniors First to respectfully request your continued support at a level of $69,300, which represents level funding, no increase. Seniors First is federally mandated under the Older Americans Act signed into law in 1965 to serve the qualifying seniors in Frederick County with the mission of keeping them in their homes as long as safely possible. Forty-five percent of our funding is federal, 25 percent is state, 22 percent is fundraisers and donations, and 8 percent is local donations. Thank you. And I will now take it over to the board. The first part of the budget is $17,284. We must raise between 10 to 25 percent match to access the federal and sum of the state money. For FY25, our average cost per unit was $17.84. In Frederick County, 50,856 units of service were served at a total cost of $907,271. And that represents a 35.8 percent increase. In the last three years, Frederick County has received a total cost of $10,855. In the last three years, Frederick County has received a total cost of $10,855. And that represents a 35.9 percent increase in service units from FY21 to FY25. Our total jurisdictional funding is $304,300. Frederick County's commitment is 23 percent of the total funding and 1.83 percent of our agency-wide budget. But Frederick County seniors receive 29 percent of our services. As you know, the senior population is the fastest-growing segment in America. By 2035, a new number of seniors will be in the service sector. And that is the first step in our budget. We must raise between 10 to 25 percent match to access the final service unit. And I will now take it over to the board. The first part of the budget is $17,284. MICHELE LAWRIE, engines operator, cuent gente Nightly films Meet 2010 Pro Bowl and manifests Kulig Teach and codes Theなん la was familiar around the Following gen lesiovre a midterm Unit President and При 1945 gewer for project economic pseudo business operation one in team clicking and the third part will be한테 your support has been a driving force behind everything we do. Because of you, of your commitment, seniors in Frederick County feel valued, connected, and cared for. In the report that I submitted to you, you will see the numbers, services delivered, and hours committed, but behind every one of those numbers is a human story, a human heart. And because of you, a widow remained in her home. She shared with her husband for over 50 years. Because of you, a veteran never missed a dialysis appointment. Because of you, a grandfather shared a hot meal and laughter with friends at our senior center instead of sitting alone in home in front of the television. You helped turn isolation into connection and uncertainty into hope. And as we look forward, we do so with confidence and optimism that there is still important work to be done and that we are not alone. But knowing that we have partners like you beside us makes all the difference. Thank you for your time. Thanks, sir. Ellen Harrison. Thank you. Good evening, Mr. Chair, esteemed members of the board, thank you for your time today. I understand I have two minutes and 56 seconds to talk. What I would say about Northwestern Community Services Board, we are an employer that covers five counties in the city of Winchester, but the piece that is important for me to convey to you tonight is of the almost 5,000 people that we serve in a given year, over 1,275 of those clients were from Frederick County. That's about 5,000 people. That's about 5,000 people. 26% of the total people that we serve. And it's a lot of foot track. If you know anything about Northwestern Community Services Board, we serve people with substance use, developmental disabilities, and mental health across the lifespan. So it's a lot of people and a lot of people coming in over and over again to receive those critical services that helps them with stability in their life. We have priority populations that we serve, and these are either children who are at risk of serious emotional disturbance, adults with serious mental illness, pregnant and parenting women with substance use disorders and or substance exposed infants, and people with developmental disabilities, again, across the lifespan. I won't go through all of the services that we have. You have that in your folder, and we did include it in the information that we sent in our budget request, and our budget request is at stable funding. We're not asking for an increase this year. I want to thank you for your time. I want to talk about two shining stars. I love to talk about the shining stars for Northwestern Community Services Board. The first one has to do with prevention. Prevention is really getting in front of people and trying to interrupt the cycle of anything that's happening around substance abuse and mental health. One of the things that you may see when you're driving down the interstate or you may see a wrap around a car, you might want to see it in a billboard, is the Lock and Talk program. It is across Virginia, but it is alive and well in the Frederick County. It's lock it up and talk about it. It has to do with gun safety and medication. You know you might have medications that you need to keep lock up from little tiny hands that might get into it or older hands from high school that might get into it. There are also boxes that are big enough to hold arms like weapons. If you lock it up, then those little hands can't get into it, and these are free. We distribute these out for free. We distribute out trigger locks and cable locks for for your guns. We do mental health first aid training. These are all those preventative things to stop the cycle so that we can have healthier, thriving communities. In the last seven years, the Deterra bags that we give out for free, and these are the bags that you can put your medication that you didn't want to take, even though you should have, and it makes it sludge. We can then safely dispose it into your community and it doesn't mess up your water system. We gave out 12,127 of those timer caps to remind you to take your medication and also to remind you that you've already taken your medication. Dang it. We gave 9,539. I have a whole lot more to say, but I understand I'm out of time. Thank you for this moment. Thank you, ma'am. Adam Stein. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Adam Stein. I'm a resident of the Opecan District, a Sharando Band parent, and president of the Sharando Band Boosters. At your last meeting, I spoke about the importance of fully funding our schools and what that means for our band and programs just like ours. Tonight, I want to expand on that and focus on the very real impacts these decisions have on students, staff, and families. It isn't just about a line item in the budget. It's about classrooms where teachers teach, students learn and thrive, and it's families doing everything that they can to support their children. Years of bare minimum funding, have brought us to a point where Frederick County now faces tough decisions about revenue. Our county continues to grow, and that growth brings with it opportunities, but it also brings more students, more classrooms, more teachers, more buses, more first responders, and more infrastructure. The needs generated by this growth are not optional. They are not temporary, and they are not going away. But instead of addressing that reality head on, year after year, we keep coming back to the same place, trying to make the numbers work without changing the system that created the problems in the first place. In each year, the consequences get pushed down, down to teachers, families, and boosted organizations like ours to pick up the slack, forcing us to work that much harder, raise more money, and maintain the same level of service, care, and opportunity that our students deserve. But the real impact, however, is felt most by our students, like my young friend sitting behind me. I want to thank you though for being a board that is willing to look at those options, to engage in honest discussion about the revenue, and to act in the best interest of our schools. What we see is a change in the way that we think about revenue. We see it as a way of asking for revenue, and we see it as a way of asking for the revenue we want to get, but we also see it as an opportunity to be able to get more money and to be able to get more money and to be able to get more money. What we see before us may not be fully adequate for all the needs of our growing county, but it's a start. It's the beginning of a conversation I hope will continue after this budget cycle ends. So I ask, are you willing to make those necessary changes to sustainably fund the county we are becoming? If the answer is no, then we need to be honest about what that means for our schools. It means larger class sizes, it means reduced opportunities for our students, and it means an increasing inequity between families who can afford to fill those gaps and those who cannot. In our BAM program, we're proud to do everything we can to ensure participation for every student, regardless of their financial situation. But there's a limit to what families and volunteers can adequately cover, and that's why your decisions matter so much. You have a choice. You can continue asking them to carry the burden, or we can make the investment necessary together as a county to ensure every student has the opportunities to succeed. Fully funding our schools is not just a budget decision. It's a commitment to our students, to our families, and to the future of our students. Thank you all so much. Thanks, sir. Jay Martz. Hey, good evening. How y'all do? Chairman Jewell, members of the board, I'm Jay Martz, Frederick County taxpayer and resident of Gainesboro District. Redbud, thanks for the great town hall the other night. Very good job. I wish we could get some of those in Gainesboro. Tonight, I want to follow up on my same theme that I talked about. I want to follow up on my same theme that I talked about last time, which was hypocrisy and that your minds are already made up. I have previously provided several members of the board with thoughts and suggestions on the proposed budget, a balanced approach to resolve the potential multimillion-dollar shortfall. I had hoped that a reduction in spending and government expansion could be accomplished alongside some of the tax revenue increases. However, I believe we have almost all tax increases and little to nothing on the other side. With a $25 million increase over last year's budget, it appears there are no true reductions in the county government. Just a decrease in the size of the growth requested by various departments. Your tax plan increases citizen payments on personal property from 423 to 435. My car, my trailer, our boats, our RVs. Yet the airplane drivers at the heavily subsidized airport are paying a penny. One penny, no increase. I think that's hypocritical. Your increase in the meals in occupegen.... meals and occupations that come fromé and occupancy tax is over 2%, a user fee that will mostly be passed on to consumers. Why is there no increase in landfill, sludge, and rubble fees? I would suggest this is a bit hypocritical. Everyone wants a pay raise. However, when you increased almost every tax on all the residents of this county and then deliver pay raises to all the government employees above the 10-year Social Security COLA average, I think this is hypocritical. I've heard supervisors say that we need to ensure that no student in government school system has to sit in a modular classroom. Yet, you are increasing the real estate tax on families that live in trailers, that live in trailer homes, that live in trailer parks. I think that is hypocritical. I have faith that you are on the right track by moving departments to become more revenue neutral. I think this is a weak first attempt. I hope you get more aggressive in this endeavor. Thank you for the opportunity to address the board. Thanks, sir. William Clay Perry. Clay Perry, Back Creek District, fiscal conservative, businessman. I just want to kind of talk about how I see property tax working and how it was meant. I think I've been thinking about this for a long time. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. It's taxed based on value of property. Your property goes up in value, your tax goes up. No different than if McDonald's raises a value meal from $5 to $10. I'm going to pay more taxes if McDonald's raises it. So that's just how it works. We don't go and cut sales tax because McDonald's raised the value of property taxes. It's meant to do that because the cost of living and everything else goes up, so we have to keep taxes going up in terms of dollar amount so that we can cover the cost of living and cover the cost of living. The cost of services in our county. And I appreciate what you guys have done to do that, and I kind of want to walk us down memory lane. What we did, though, was a couple years ago, maybe a year ago, we lowered our tax rate. And not only did we lower it, if you go back from 2018 to 2022, we had a rate of 61 cents. Okay? That's still pretty low, actually, compared to the national average, but it's 27% higher than our current tax rate of 48 cents, which is just way too low. We're the second lowest, as I understand it, the second lowest tax rate in the entire state of Virginia. That's a very low tax rate. I think we can afford for it to go up a little bit. I think a gentleman earlier today said, let's do what Augusta did because they can balance their budget. Augusta County has a 52 cent tax rate, not too far off of what you guys are proposing. Congratulations. I think that's a great idea. The national average is 1.02. We're about half the national average. I think we've got some room where that can go up. I'm actually in support. That's a fiscal. I'm a little conservative because I know being conservative and being fiscal, you have to have revenue exceed expenses. I think you guys have done a great job keeping expenses down, and I appreciate that. I support a 5 cent increase, and I'm happy as a homeowner to pay that increase. Thank you guys very much. Thanks, sir. Isabella Collegeman and Gavin Flynn. Good evening, members of the board. Good evening, everyone. Good evening, everyone. Good evening, members of the board. Good evening, members of the board. My name is Gavin Flynn. My name is Gavin Flynn. I'm honored to serve as one of the Frederick County School Board student representatives alongside Isabella Collegeman. We want to thank you for your ongoing collaboration with the budget. Thanks to the board's support, FCPS is one of the best districts in the area. Isabella and I have experienced this firsthand through world-class career-based learning at Dow J. Howard as well as extracurricular programs that are preparing us to thrive after graduation. To ensure students have a good future, to ensure students have a good future, to ensure students have a good future, and to ensure students continue to have access to these opportunities, we must invest in our schools. I understand that the Board of Supervisors is waiting for businesses to come to Frederick County, but the best time to build is now. Businesses won't help build our schools. The schools will help build our future businesses. When I moved to Frederick County in third grade, it wasn't because the property tax or the industry. It was because the reputation of Frederick County public schools. It was because the reputation of Frederick County public schools. Many parents and students in the audience can attest that a well-funded school is one of the most important things that a local government can offer. If we wait for something to change, we risk degrading the very thing that draws families and growth to Frederick County in the first place. To outline exactly where this investment is needed most, I will now turn it over to Isabella. Isabella Collegeman Good evening, members of the Board, Mr. Chair. My name is Isabella Collegeman, and I am honored to be speaking in front of you today. My name is Isabella Collegeman, and I am honored to be speaking in front of you today. My name is Isabella Collegeman, and I am honored to be speaking in front of you today. I am honored to be speaking in front of you today. not only as a member of this community, but as one of Frederick County's student representatives. I come forward tonight to discuss the importance of this investment in students. Through my time sitting on the School Board as a non-voting member, I have experienced first-hand the importance of advocating for our students. I am grateful to say that I was selected to be the first of many voices for my community. The opportunity to sit on the Board is something that Frederick County School Board and Dr. Hummer provided, and it is a privilege, breakthrough in the education system. Through this position, Gavin and I have spoken to many of the students in our school system and here's what we have learned. Students are requesting more CTE opportunities, 4 p.m. buses that provide transport for after-school activities, access to tutoring after school that covers a broader range of topics, and many more ideas that we have yet to hear from the student body. Although this sounds like a big ask, you must recognize the value of this investment. Gavin and I are here only because we are proof that investing in this system will make kids stronger. Thank you for the opportunity that this county has offered us tonight to come and speak in front of you, not only representing ourselves but all of the students of Frederick County. Thank you. Thank you. Oliver Tarble. Good evening, everyone. Good evening, Chairman and members of the board. My name is Oliver Tarble and I come from the Opec District. However, I'm not here to speak about myself. I'm here to share comments from other students who are unable to speak for various reasons. You are all elected officials who represent districts of the county, not yourselves. Your choices will affect thousands of people directly and indirectly. Starting with a quote from my father, sports are extracurricular, which means outside normal curriculum. There's one class that teaches sports. Music is part of the curriculum. There are multiple classes that teach about music. So it's your choice. Are you funding the curriculum or the extra activities? The basis of our education is the curriculum. That's what everything is centered around. If sports were truly that important, they would be a greater part of the curriculum, but they're not. That alone should make your decision. I'm extremely disappointed that I have to point this out to adults who have been through school and experienced curriculum. From an anonymous student, why is the band department the first one getting money cut from it? Why is the band department the first one getting money cut from it? We have the same amount of people who care about band sports. From Anigale Ashley, 10th grade, who has had two years in the program, sharing a band has not only helped me to improve as a musician, but to learn and push myself to the limits to improve myself as a human being. This program is important to me and helped me and many of my peers to improve. From Sam Henshaw, grade 10, two years in the Shirena Band program. The Shirena Band for me is an only class, but also like a second family. I spent about just as much time as I can in the band room during school, before or after school, just to spend time with friends and talk to Mr. Endy and Ms. Stein about anything really. This program means so much to me. From Ava Roos, ninth grade, one year in this program. I wish I could have been there to say that this band is one of my favorite things in life and hearing that the funding is getting cut makes me sad. Band is such an awesome thing to participate in and the sense of community and belonging I feel, being a part of it is truly wonderful. I hope that that will never change. From Joanna Figueroa, 12th grade, one year in the program. Band truly saved my life by giving me a sense of purpose, support, and belonging when I needed it most. Please don't cut funding from a program that makes such a real difference in students lives. From McKenna Bell, tenth grade, two years in the program. I have not been in band long, but the few years I've been a part of the band it has become a safe place where I have made many friends that will last the rest of my life. It has also taught me great communication skills and leadership qualities. It pushes me to be better and actually commit and strive for something. Band has been my only constant activity that I've stuck with and every ounce of money counts for our program. From Rebecca Hart, tenth grade, one year in the program. Band has become an extremely important part of defining who I am and the amazing group of friends I've made this year are due to band. Both staff and students alike are dedicated to making music together and building a tight-knit community. I love the band and the joy that it brings both me and many more students. I do not have time to read the rest of these quotes. Hopefully Tyler and I will be able to read them. Randy, my director, can finish these quotes off for me. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Vaughn Whitaker. Vaughn Whitaker, Gainesboro District. Thank you, Chairman, District Supervisors for allowing me this time to speak. I would like to talk on taxes. I feel we need a straight 10% cut in all administrative levels in our local government. And when it comes to the real estate tax, no increases on everybody's primary home, your first home. This way we can protect the young citizens, new home buyers with children in schools that are under the pain of the pandemic. Thank you. And then Ηow would again, no increase on primary home. If you have a second home or rental properties, this is where you raise your tax rates. Accept those rental property that cater to the low income level. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Trisha Strother? Thank you. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and members of the board. Thank you for having us here this evening. I just want to take a quick second and bounce off some of the things that have already been said from my cohorts from Sherando Band. I have just- Give your, ma'am, give your name and address. Patricia Strother, Bat Creek District. Thank you, thank you. Sorry. So, I just wanted to implore you all to consider fully funding the school budget. While I do understand the need to spend fund wisely and that there are many needs that need to be considered for serving this community, let's not consider underfunding things that have proven themselves to be successful and have a track record to prove so. By meaning success, I mean helping these kids to become leaders, to be accountable not only to the most vulnerable, but to the most vulnerable. To be able to do what they need to do for themselves, but to others. To be dependable and punctual, which we all know how difficult that can be for teenagers. Two, to never settle and always strive for the best, but to also be supportive of each other. And I have literally seen these clothes take-these kids take clothes off their backs and share it with each other. There is a true sense of selflessness within this community and group. And it isn't all of the-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and sorry. And isn't all of this what we are truly hoping for from the youth of our country today? Not all bands are created equal, and these kids are athletes and love to compete. It has been said that there might be less band trips in the future. I encourage you to see the value of the kinds of school-these kinds of school programs and not undersell the importance in the development of these children in our community. Thank you for your time. Thank you, ma'am. I'm having trouble with the next name. Is it-there's Strother, but I'm having trouble reading the first name. Trisha? The second- Sierra. Sorry. That's okay. I had a hand writing. Hello, Chairman and members of the board. My name is Sierra Strother, and I come from the Back Creek District. I am a member of the Sherando High School Marching Band, and I attend Sherando as well as Mountain Vista Governor's School. I'm a member of the Sherando High School Marching Band, and I attend Sherando as well as Mountain Vista Governor's School. I'm a member of the Sherando High School Marching Band, and I attend Sherando as well as Mountain Vista Governor's School. I just want to take a second and talk about how important band means to me and a bunch of other people that I surround myself with. I've been a member of the band for two years, which is so crazy to think about. I met some of my closest friends in this program, and it means so much to me. And it breaks my heart to hear that the budget might be cut and that we might be losing some of those amazing opportunities that this program provides for us. I met one of my best friends on my first day of school, and I met one of my best friends on my first day of school. I met one of my best friends on my first day of school, and I met one of my best friends on my first day of band camp. And I remember it so vividly, and it was one of the most amazing moments. I just remember meeting all of my friends and all of the people that I cherish most in my life through this program. And I would hate to see something happen to it through these budget cuts, so devastating, and seeing this collaboration and teamwork all fall apart. And I also want to mention that I am part of the leadership program that I'm very fortunate to be a part of. I was brought to that position, and I was brought into this position, and it has given me so many extra skills that I never thought I would learn through a classroom. I've learned how to be here and speak in front of people. I've learned how to collaborate with other people that are in charge and leading as well. I've also learned how to come out of my shell and communicate to strangers that I've never met before. And even though I've never met anyone in my life, I've learned how to communicate with people. And even though I might be incredibly nervous and scared to talk to these people, it gives me the courage to think that I could be here and speak my voice today. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you. Cadence Thompson and Xavier Saunders. Good evening, Board. My name is Xavier from the Opecan District. And my name is Cadence from the Opecan District. Thank you for allowing us to speak tonight. We are proud members of our school's band program, a program that has but a reputation as one of the strongest bands in the state of Virginia. That reputation doesn't happen by accident. It came from long rehearsals, reckless practices, and students who refused to settle for a mediocre key. But excellence does not maintain itself. It requires support. And right now, the reality is simple. Maintaining a high-level band program costs money. Our uniforms represent this district every time we step on a field or stage, yet they fade, rip, and stop fitting students who are constantly growing. If we expect our band to look improved, we will. If we expect our band to look improved, we will. If we expect our band to look improved, we will. If we expect our band to perform like one of the best in Virginia, then we need the resources to match that expectation. And this program is about far more than equipment. Some of us in band is where we succeed when other environments are difficult. I am a student with an IEP, and many classrooms focusing for long periods can be challenging. Processing information quickly can feel overwhelming. But when I walk into the band room, everything changes. The structure of music continues beats. Listening to others, watching the conductor, gives me focus and direction. In band, I am not the only one who is not defined by accommodations or limitations. I am defined by contributions to the ensemble. When I play my part correctly, the entire group is stronger. The sense of responsibility builds confidence that carries into the rest of my education. And for some students, band is the reason they show up to school at all. For me, band is my safe place. It's where my closest friends are. It's where I feel accepted and valued. On difficult days when stress feels overwhelming, the band room is where I know I belong. Programs like this improve attendance, support mental health, and give students a community they may not find anywhere else. Band also teaches discipline and accountability. If we don't practice, it shows. If we are late, the entire ensemble suffers. It teaches leadership, teamwork, and resilience, lessons that extend far beyond music. And when we travel across Virginia for competitions, we carry the name of this district with us. The success reflects directly on the community, but maintaining that level of success requires investment. We are asking for full funding so students can perform with reliable instruments. So we can represent our school with uniforms that reflect pride. So families are not forced to carry the financial burden alone. And so every student, regardless of background, has access to opportunities this program provides. Band builds focus and belonging. And when you invest in band, you invest in students and community pride in the future of this district. We've worked hard to make this band one of the best in Virginia. With your support, we can keep it that way. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list that has signed up. Elizabeth Aylor, Back Creek. I just want to say thank you so much for the wonderful budget and doing such a great job. And I hope that you can fund the school. And I'm happy to pay 5% or 5 cents. Thank you. Yes, sir. Name and master of district, please. Good evening. My name is Tyler Endy. I live in Winchester, but I work in Frederick County as the band director at Sharando High School. As I was introduced to finish these quotes, I'm just going to read, continue to read these quotes from the Sharando band students. From Ava Cotton, 12th grader, four years in the program. Band was my lifeline throughout high school. It kept me motivated, gave me a purpose and community, and a reason to keep moving. Without it, I wouldn't be the person I am today. And to take this opportunity away from kids would not only be saddening, but detrimental to the community, its people, and it's the kids' future. From Landon Beyer, 10th grader, two years in the program. As a member of the Sharando Indoor Percussion Program, funding is necessary to make our program successful. We compete in circuits such as the Winter Guard International and Atlantic Indoor Association, which puts our school's name out on a nationwide level, but it's only possible with the necessary funding the school board provides to our band program. Thank you. From Josie Austin, 12th grader, four years in the program. Sharando band has given me a future in music education. I don't know what my career path would look like without the directors and staff that I've had. From Michaela Schaefer, 11th grader, three years in the program. Before band, I didn't know more than two friends in high school. Band gave me a community and so many people I wouldn't know otherwise who all have made my life better. From Paige Zimmerman, 11th grader, three years in the program. I have learned so much from band, and it has shown me to be a leader and what leadership is about. With that being said, I can carry this with me out of high school as it is valuable to me. From Christian Shelley, 9th grader, one year in the program. The Sharando band program offered me a lot in the short time I've been here. Even though I've only been here for only one year, meeting these people and participating in events like competitions have always given me a smile on my face. Lastly, from Sarah Neal, 11th grader, three years in the program. I've been in band for over a decade. I've been in the band for six years now and guard for three years. It has given me many friendships, an amazing community, more confidence, and I have learned a lot from it. I would hate to see the programs taken away or allowed less funding leading to them possibly being taken away or not being able to perform as much which is what we all put in the hard work and time for. These programs give kids amazing opportunities that they might not have. So to provide some context here, with not fully funding the schools, it is interesting to see how much of a difference it has made to the school. It is interesting to see how much of a difference it has made to the school. We have a lot of discussion for schools to experience reduced funding in certain resource areas and that will likely include band trips for the future. We have our marching band that has traveled to five competitions, invitational, and will be going to five parades by the end of the year. Then we have the indoor winter guard and then the indoor progression ensemble, which are also competing ensembles that travel around the state. And those are just three things that we do when it comes to travel. So that is what we're doing. That is what we are talking about for experiencing improved funding in the schools. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anybody else? Hello. My name is Amber Flynn. I'm from the Opaquan District. And forgive me if I'm pronouncing that wrong. I've lived here 16 years and never heard it spoken out loud. My son is actually Gavin Flynn. He was a student that was speaking for the funding for sports programs and other programs. And while I was sitting back there listening to the students speak, I noticed by cutting their budgets, you're pitting the students against each other. The sports program came up asking for money, then the band comes up asking for money, and they're saying that one is more important than the other. Neither is more important or less important. Sports are important for a reason. I grew up in Detroit. I venture you to run a sports program, and I'm a sports psychologist. I was a sports psychologist when I was in high school. And I did research about our schools when I was growing up in the 80s. There was rampant government fraud. Our schools were very poorly funded, but we still had sports and we still had music. I did not have a good childhood. Sports was everything to me after school because it gave me somewhere to be that I didn't have to be home, basically. And then music as well is a good learning opportunity. It's a good way to help learning in your other classes. And sports does teach leadership and personal accountability and, you know, teamwork and building that camaraderie that can lead until their adulthoods. So I just want you to notice how the children are responding to these cuts, and I will gladly myself give up my, one of my monthly Dunkin' Donuts trips to be able to pay for these students, to have the things that they look forward to in school when all the other stuff they do all day is not what they're looking forward to. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Willie Deutsch. I reside in the Opecan District. I want to just come here and ask for consistency from what we as taxpayers can expect. Last year the tax rate was cut from 51 down to 48. Now we're discussing moving it back up to 50. There's a discussion about a budget shortfall. I don't think that all just happened overnight. And so it just, it feels very erratic to drop it one year, jack it back up the next year. And so for a purpose of long-term planning, if there can be some consistency and a vision of where we're going that actually thinks more than just one year to the next, that would be wonderful. Secondly, I was looking through our tax rates and our tax schedules. I noticed that the tax rate was down to about $1.25. The data center, the computer and peripheral tax for data centers is not being raised. It's at $1.25. Loudon and Prince William both have it at around $4. So our tax rate for data centers is about three and a half times different, rough figures. So if you're going to bring data centers in, part of the reason they're looking at us is because our rate is so low. When you have the rates so low, we become an extra magnet. Now we're going to get less revenue than Loudon and Prince William would be getting for the same things. So please, if you're looking to raise rates, at least raise the data center and peripheral tax too. I know we don't have that many yet, but at least be consistent with the other regions first if you're going to be asking us to pay our higher taxes as well. And please raise that rate before you bring in more data centers because we're being a magnet and we're getting less revenue than the other counties would be getting, and that would be crazy. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? Okay. Hi, my name is Leslie Spencer. I live in Gainesboro. I wanted to congratulate you first on the distinguished budget presentation award program. That's really cool. And I was at the budget session when Supervisor Aikens in Gubermont and Oates all gave wonderful comments and helped budget, to balance the budget super well. And I really appreciate all your hard work and effort. Supervisor Aikens also joined the tourism meeting this month, and he shared a really great avenue for the EDA to look into agritourism by using the increase in lodging tax. And I really appreciate all the hard work you're doing. And I am a homeschooler, but I really appreciate how we invest in schools. That can lead to us attracting those smart high-wage jobs that are going to help all of us. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important for all the people that don't want to be farmers in the EDA, and they can still come out to our rural side and go to our agritourism venues, which is called long-term tourism, too. So all of this is great. Please continue to invest in our county. Thank you so much. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else? Hello, again. Jack Tinsley, Gainesboro district. I thought it was really impressive that the budget shortfalls had like $41 million, and then when the gentleman was finished, it said zero. It was just equal. So that was really impressive. Good job on working on that. I think that it's pretty good that you all were still able to invest in education and streets, transportation, stuff like that, and still, like, balance the budget. So, yes, kudos. Also, thank you to the folks at the EDA. And also, it makes me even more like no data centers, right, because the budget's pretty good. So I'm used to living in a world where the budget is always negative, and it's like borrowing from one day to the next. Even like on a national level, that's what I'm really used to. I used to live in New York, and it was very similar out away from the city. I lived in western New York for a little while. So, yeah, I just, again, don't see another reason for the data centers at all, especially after seeing the budget, and I think that it looks really good. Other than that, I want to commend the students talking about their musical program, because people's art is the genesis of their freedom. That's a quote from Claudia Jones. And I think that it's really, really nurturing for the spirit and the soul of a community to have a strong arts program, and music is part of that. So something else to consider, but that's all for me. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? All right. I'm going to close. I'm going to close this public hearing now. Board, we're supposed to move on, but we've got to surprise the audience. What do you think? Absolutely. Yeah, let's comment. All right. Well, this might take minutes. And I will say the budget sessions I've been a part of over the last several years, the ones I've watched, I was very proud of this budget session. Every supervisor up here took it upon themselves, dug into it independently. We found things. Some of us found common things. Some of us found unique things. And there were a lot of cuts. A lot of cuts. When at one of the meetings we came in, everybody came in with their proposed budget so we could share it amongst ourselves. I came in with a balanced budget that had no tax increase, but it cut the crap out of everything. And I spent every nickel we had and every dollar we had on that. And I had a temporary account. And I agreed with the board. Yeah, it can be done, but this isn't good. So we did, I mean, we had I think $6 million for, or I had $6 million in schools. Since then we've raised it up to 9.1. I cut fire and rescue a good bit. We brought that back up. But I've said many times my line in the sand was 3 cents on real estate. I'm the one that suggested bringing up the personal property, 15 cents, to keep real estate from going up an additional penny. Real estate just hits landowners. Personal property hits every citizen, whether you own land or not. So to me it's a little bit more fair. The meals tax, raising that up, that's not every citizen. That's also people that visit here. So they contribute to our taxes. Lodging tax is almost everybody outside the community. So that helps us. I'm glad some of the money is going to tourism, but I also think some of that needs to go to Parks and Rec to build tournament fields, ball courts, to bring in more tourism on that end. Next, there are some things in the budget that I didn't agree with, particularly paying some county employees 3% and others 7%. I think it should have been fair across the board. What do you tell the employees that are only getting 3%? Especially after we have those apartments do a 5% tax cut or 5% budget cut across the board. And then that money goes to a different department. I still think we're double dipping on the buses. I didn't agree with some of the positions that were still in there, particularly for admin. I still have an issue with the $2.4 million for fire apparatus. Some of those pieces of equipment will be co-owned with volunteers. We need a policy in place before we cut that check for $2.4 million. It's been started several times over the years, but it's never been codified. So I think it's incumbent upon us to get that done before July 1st when this kicks in. That way everybody is real clear on who owns what, who's responsible for what. If we don't, then it's just going to be a mess later on when it's time to either repair or get rid of that equipment. Second thing. When Northwestern was in the business, we had a lot of problems. We had a lot of problems. I was up here speaking. They brought up substance abuse. We had talked about it on a couple other agencies. I'd like to look in to see if some of the opioid money could be used to fund Northwestern. When it comes to school band, I hear you. Not to downplay, but we give the school board a lump sum of money. How they spend it is up to them. This year they came in with one of the biggest budget requests. I've ever seen. And we gave them a big budget increase. It wasn't fully what they were asking for. But it's a lot more than this board has ever given the school as far as an increase. Airport. The penny on planes. That gets brought up every now and then. I think it was maybe 15 years ago. Maybe not even that long. They did raise the airplane tax rate. And every plane flew out of here. The airport self funds by selling fuel to planes. It doesn't cost us anything to have a plane sitting in a hanger. So it helps. When all those planes flew out, then we had to turn around and give the airport a whole lot more money to keep them operating. By keeping the planes at a penny, the airport's not coming to us to ask for tax money to stay afloat. So I'm not going to touch that stove. As far as I'm concerned, we need to leave it a penny. Don't even consider raising it. It's not hypocritical. Next one is there was an idea brought up by Mr. Whitaker about doing a different tax rate for primary houses over secondary or something like that. I don't even know if that's allowed by law. But I think next year before we start the budget session, our first meeting in January, let's hold a public hearing. We'll see what happens. We'll see if we can get a public hearing and let people that have these kind of ideas come float them. That way they can be vetted. Is it legal? Is it a good idea? Is it not? Instead of catching on the tail end. So if we can make a note of that to have that as a public hearing on our first meeting in January next year, I'd appreciate it. As far as consistency, you're never going to have that because every November, boards change. Elections happen. So you're never going to be consistent. Right now, you have four new members that weren't here last summer. It's a new board. Next year, you may have another new board. So it's never going to be consistent. I guess that's some of what I've got to say. And I just I'm very proud of all the work we did on the budget. I'm amazed at how well it came out. Thanks, sir. Anybody else on my right? Mr. Browse, your order. Mr. Browse, your order. I'm good with where we landed. I think the five cent I can support looking at what we have coming down the road. I do think the salary study for county staff will help us next year. I do think it's important. It takes quality people at all levels. We have schools, fire and rescue, sheriff's office, and we can't be behind there. And when the superintendent in his budget presentation says that he is down, has 100 vacancies opening school, that's a major concern. So you have to be competitive. Just my two cents at this point. Thanks, sir. Vice chair. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr. Balhofer, I think that was an excellent presentation that you made. It simplified what we did. But certainly it took a lot more hours to sit down and come up with what you showed up there. I'm like Supervisor Oates. I think this board did an excellent job. They worked very, very hard. Everybody got down and really did their homework. I think it's important for the school to be as cautious as they could with the taxpayer money and to use it wisely to give you the services you want and you deserve. So I'm comfortable with raising it with the five cents. I think that will help us. But not to just get out of debt. But it will help us with upcoming years where we have some expenses, the new school and so forth that are coming up. It's preparing for the future is what it's doing. I will tell you this. Frederick County, since I've lived here and been on the board for a long time, we've always found a way. Everybody says, oh, my gosh, what are we going to do? We're not going to be able to buy that school. We're not going to be able to. I've seen schools built in the last six years, eight years. We didn't raise taxes to do it. We actually lowered taxes and built a different school. We didn't raise taxes. We built new schools. So we will get through it. We'll do fine. This is a good board here, better than I've had in a long, long time to work with. It was tough four years because folks just had promised you that they would never raise your taxes. I'll never promise you that. I'll tell you that the time to raise your taxes is when you tell me to. When you tell me you want more services, when you want to pay more for the school, when you want to pay for the school. I'll tell you that. When you want to pay more for the band, when you want to pay more for the schools, you tell me that. But you have to understand that's where you chip in and start paying for those things you want. Better police, sheriff's department, fire department. But that all being said, I'm really, really very proud of my fellow supervisors. Worked extremely hard, both personal time and all the work sessions that we had to get to where we are. And I think it's a great budget for Frederick County for this year. Thank you, sir. Thanks, sir. Going to my left now. Would you like to speak? You good? I concur with everything that's been said. But specifically, I want to make sure that I make a point on what Supervisor Oates said concerning the fire apparatus. I 100% concur. We've got to figure out, I'm a strong supporter of the fire departments. I think lots of us up here are. But we've got to get those policies in line. Because when... To your point, when next November happens or two Novembers from now happens and there's a different board up here, then who knows what's going to happen ten years from now when those fire apparatuses need to be retired. And we're not going to be talking about it. So we've got to get the policies in place. And I'm 100% in support on not doing anything until that policy is in place. That's just sitting down and doing a little bit of work and ironing out the details. I'm in favor of four cents. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to be in support of all the taxes that we laid out that Mr. Bullhofer presented. One of the things I did today was I went to Shandong University and they were having a career fair. Every municipality within 50 miles was at that fair trying to recruit our people. They were trying to recruit our students and our current deputies. I mean, every law enforcement agency in the surrounding area was there to recruit. Other schools, other municipalities were there to recruit our people. So if we don't have competitive wages, we're going to lose to those localities who are coming here to try and take our people. So we have to have fair wages. The other thing I'll say is when you look out at this crowd, there are people here, and I learned this from having a town hall, everybody here has different requirements at the stage of their life that they're in. If you're retired, you don't have kids in school, so you don't have an investment in band. If you're a parent with kids in the band, you have an investment in those kids. Everybody's at a different point in their life. So as a board, we have to figure out how to please everybody, how to take care of everybody. We had seniors discussed tonight. People brought up paying the staff. I don't want to tell that deputy standing at the door that he's not worthy of a raise. Sorry to point you out. But everybody here who works here, we don't have any rules. We don't have any regulations. We don't have any regulations. for the county has a position in which they always hope they're going to get forwarded in life, just like any other job. We shouldn't treat county employees less than because they're paid by taxpayer dollars. They have a job. So why don't we want to give them a fair wage? People deserve it. So I think our tax rates are great because it's going to give competitive wages, fair wages, and I think that's how we should be running this. If we're going to be a business-friendly community, which is another discussion, but all those things will come together and make us competitive and a strong community. Thank you. Thank you, sir. You got anything? You're good? Okay. Sharon, I'd have two resolutions ready to go. I wouldn't suggest having two resolutions ready to go. No problem. So. Thank you. Thank you for all you've done. Mr. Bolhofer, that was an outstanding presentation. I want to again, I want to point out to the staff, you really worked hard. Everyone's worked hard. Folks, you have no idea. We are, this board has really, really gelled and come together, and we're looking at everything. We're trying to do what's right for our community. We love our county, and that's been the total drive here with trying to fix this budget. I was very happy when he said we had a balanced budget, sir, so I wanted you to hear that when you said that. We're making up for a lot of things, Gary. We've been around a while, and Bob, and this, you know, we're on the right track. We're on the right track. We've got a long ways to go. This is, you know, you get your short term, your medium, and your long. So, but as a board, I can promise you we're doing what we're supposed to be doing. So. Thank you. Okay, let's move on to Planning Commission Business Information Discussion, sir, on Ordinance Amendment Battery Storage. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Absolutely. And no presentation for this item. It's offered for your consideration. A developer's representative approached the Planning Department, a board member, to seek to allow for battery energy storage systems to be allowed by conditional use permit in our industrial and the RA zoning. In particular, they were interested in properties that are currently zoned EM, extractive manufacturing, and RA, rural areas, where they're seeking to establish the use. If you're not familiar with the use, there's a couple of them going in across the Commonwealth already. They're essentially large grid-connected storage batteries that are about the shape and size of a shipping container that are interfaced with electrical infrastructure to store power when it's not being used in peak times to then discharge, again, when it's needed during peak times. I'm happy to answer any questions. We're happy to do the work on this Ordinance Amendment if you all want us to. Happy to answer any questions, Mr. Chairman. Any questions? Yes, sir, Supervisor Rhodes. Yeah, I'll just say I'm the member that met with them. It was up in the Stonewall District. It was a site that is on land already zoned for mining. The surrounding properties were industrial, a railroad track, no houses within the vicinity. And this is a... I think it's something for data centers or some other conspiracy theory. This is... The way it was presented, it's a battery storage that goes in next to substations. So it's not power lines crisscrossing the county. It's near substations, and it's there to help with brownouts when you get the power surges. To me, it's better to have this or quiet than have like a natural gas turbine power plant sitting there to help make up the difference. So... And the reason it's for industrials and RA is that's because where the substations are. And one of the downsides of these, if they catch on fire, you don't putt it out. You stand back, you protect what's around it. So that's why I wanted a conditional use permit, because I don't want these things around houses or forests or something that would be a problem. Next to a quarry with a giant hole of water, no problem. So these aren't batteries going, across the county and this also is not something where we're blankly saying we're accepting it we're sending this to the Planning Commission to study it and come back with what they think is the best solution and then we'll consider it but that's what this is again social media sucks stuff that gets out there so I'll make a motion that we send this to the Planning Commission to study all right all right got a motion I got a second can I ask a question of mr. Chris mr. Pearson sorry to put you on the spot again mr. Oates just talked about the process going forward I'm assuming there's a there's at least two public meetings two public hearings one at the Planning Commission level and one at the board of supervisors level because I did hear some comments earlier some opposition to this type of you know the changes in the planning commission policy and the planning commission process related to the meeting so I am going to go ahead and facility going into the the RA but they have even if we go forward tonight they have two opportunities to speak correct yes sir that's right first it'll go to the development review and regulations committee in a draft form and then after that we'll take it to the Planning Commission that will be a public hearing opportunity or anybody can offer comments on the draft proposal and then finally it'll end up back at this board of supervisors with another public hearing mr. thank you on this particular topic I'm not a fan of the battery storage in the agricultural areas industrial areas now the car moose and I understand about all those and like supervisor it said if they catch on fire they're on fire and you can't put them out they burn down and till they burn out basically it's like the old car tire fire tire factory or fire we had here in Frederick County just have to let it burn until it burns out anyway so I I'm willing to take a look at it and listen about it but it's not I just don't think that what my fear is is that it'll be passively we put it into a CUP status just like we said the board is fluid so this board right here I have confidence that they be very careful careful and cautious where they place that in an agriculture area but the next board doesn't have that in it so I'm not going to be able to get that in the next board might not be that cautious and you're opening the door for just okay it's a CUP and I can pass that so I'd rather not see it in there but I'm willing to listen anyway thank you sir super resorts yeah I'd just like to provide one other thing I I think it'd be important for this board to say also when Planning Commission looks at these are gonna be adjacent to substations nowhere else just next to the substation so not out in the middle of a dairy farm or something like that it's there to help the power grid so as data centers over-the-mount and start sucking power through here we've got some back up. Thanks sir, okay do I need a role call? I just say should we eventually we have a vote to send it to yeah yeah oh all right with all all in favor of sending it to the to planning planning say aye Aye. Anybody opposed? There you go, Mr. Pearson. We got you. All right. Board liaison reports. Mr. Supervisor Warnedorf. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Supervisor Guvermont and I were in attendance at the March 18th Planning Commission meeting. Two action items of importance that will be coming to this board are the first is rezoning approximately 1.21 acres from B2, General Business Zoning District, to Proffers with Proffers to B3, Industrial Transition Zoning with Proffers. The property is located at 161 Commonwealth Court, Winchester, and is identified by property identification number 75-A-91E and it's in the Back Creek District. This request was approved by the commission and will be coming to the board for consideration. Again, a local business and certainly a good location. The second item was a recommendation for revocation of a conditional use permit number 03-24 for 172-A-91E. This is the property located at 172 Firehouse, LLC, and Barbara Singhass. This conditional use permit is proposed to be revoked due to a violation of Condition 4 from the conditional use permit number 3-24, which pertains to a minor site plan. The property is located at 171 Old Firehouse Lane, Winchester, and is identified with property identification number 52-A-287B. And it is also in the Back Creek Magisterial District. The commission did take action to revoke the conditional use permit, and this will also be coming to the board for consideration. I can tell you I will be visiting this site immediately prior to this item coming to the board. And looking at the issues that were pointed out by the planning commission. And particular access and progress on addressing those conditions. I would suggest that board members view the video to hear the dialogue between the planning commissioners. And the legal counsel representing the applicant. And also the public comments. This is something that has apparently drug on at least two years and maybe longer. Thank you. So with that, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gubermont, I would yield if you have any additional comments. We both heard the discussion. And again, I think it's worth viewing before staff makes a presentation when it comes before the board. So with that, that concludes my liaison report. Thanks, sir. I agree with you. I sat back and listened to it. Really, everybody needs to listen to that. And I think it's a good thing to watch that video. Anything on the right? Anyone? How about the left? We've got a few things. Went to the tourism meeting last week. And a lot of good things are happening with Justin and his team. So nice job, Justin. And everybody involved. As a board, we're going to need to collaborate a little bit with the city on if the actual budget that's being presented is approved on how to use the actual tourism funds. They're going to be dedicated because there needs to be collaboration between us and the city. And also the tourism board. So that's just a heads up to everybody here on that. And then relative to the EDA, I appreciate everybody's comments that I've met with over the last few weeks on the proposed endorsed plan that we have amongst ourselves. And that will be delivered to the EDA board chair by close of business tomorrow. Thanks, sir. Anybody else have anything? All right. I'm going to speak about transportation. A few folks saw that we are closed. We're closed. We're closed. I'm going to try to corporations. I'm so sorry. We're going to eat eating. Well, from that expectation. We are committed to putting funds in for transportation. There's a program, SmartScale. We're very fortunate. We've got Mr. Bishop over here, who's the deputy director, and he is our transportation guy. And he's constantly putting in applications for us for SmartScale projects. And we have a lot that are going to be going into the pipe. actually have three members that are local in our area here that helps us and with smart scouts a matching fund program where the county gives a percentage and the state does another so there are things that they're looking at whether it's exit 307 with the bridge that's that's one of been on the list for years 522 and 37 with apple pie Road route 7 Greenwood 50 West 37 diverging mine demand diamond we've already got projects in the works where we're gonna be widening i-81 from exit 310 up past up tomorrow mile marker 319 you got a diverging diamond going in where exit 317 is in the Clearbrook area one of the things we're also going to work with the state we already reached out to our delegates is trying to get folks to slow down and and doing a better job with the enforcement especially on like route 7 route 7 is not made made made, for the speeds that are going to have no shoulders so we're working with our sheriff's department and VDOT that's the things that goes on in these these project the transportation meeting so it'll be a safety care safety corridor that's what we're talking here so that's my report for liaison so that takes care of liaison reports we got citizens comments madam clerk mr. chairman we do not have anyone on the line. and also we're not going to be able to be able to have a meeting with anyone signed up all right is there anyone that wants to speak. good evening actually I think my name is on the. sign up sheet that was out of a vestibule Kirk Krieger back Creek district I'd like to play down a couple of issues as it relates to battery energy storage systems you know I was an energy policy planner for the Washington state government and I'm going to be working with the city's state association of counties. and the association of Washington city so I work with over a hundred local governments on energy policy. and the idea of micro grids and having a sustainable energy system is a good idea. as mentioned. lithium ion batteries explode and they can cause major problems for everything around them you've got some great firefighters in this county so as you think about proffers. whoever is putting lithium ion. energy storage systems in place ought to be funding a new industrial strength fire station and supporting the operating costs of firefighters. I don't think it's fair to put that cost on the back of taxpayers. the bigger issue for me and I'll raise it at the planning commission will be due time to do that is that by allowing battery energy storage systems in our area zone land it's a pretext. later. to come back to argue for a change circumstance and get M one zoning along with the substation and along with the battery energy storage system. I'm not going to project. if that's indeed the case but the issue is that we're taking two years to do a comprehensive plan but we're willing to apparently in less than. two months take up the issue of battery energy storage systems I think you have a backwards. I think you should put time and energy into looking at. the entire comprehensive plan and then fit these new technologies into the context of that comp plan. the other thing I'd like to mention is I think the airport is really vastly underutilized. you've got a great investment the airport support area could support things like this you ought to have a better fire suppression system at the airport anyway so if you're going to be upgrading your fire. you're going to be upgrading your fire. you're going to be upgrading your fire. the support area. the support area. the support area. I think it's a good idea to have a better fire suppression system to support. better energy storage systems do it at the airport. that's my recommendation. I'll be tracking it along with the planning commission in due time. Thank you. Thank you sir. Anybody else. Come on up. I don't know anything about lithium batteries or anything like that and I do agree with very prudent. planning and judgment but I will say that. this. Looking at the patterning of what's happening in our world right now, having a disaster response plan for our grid is mission critical for our residents. I think there has to be a return on investment, obviously, and understanding what the cost is and hazards, but to counterbalance losing our entire grid. I don't think that Virginia is set up to be able to handle the growth that the data centers are going to push on us. I think that there's a lot of decisions being made in the industry right now that are not going to be sustainable or viable. We may not have two years. That's a reality, I think, that we all have to face. So I don't know how you solve for that, but disaster preparedness and response, energy efficiency, sovereignty on our grid is all really good stuff. So I think that we need to be investing in it and happy to contribute anywhere that we can. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Willie Deutsch. I reside in the Opecan District. I'm speaking on behalf of a group of citizens who have come together to have a discussion about the disaster preparedness plan for our grid. I think that there's a lot of to host a forum on data centers and information about them. It's privately organized, privately funded, and we want to invite community and board members to attend. We know each of you cares about the community, and so we look forward to seeing you all at the information Q&A session hosted at Trumpet Vine Farm in Stevens City on April 15th from 630 to 830. We'll have a panel of experts that will present on data centers to include two industrial hygienists who have received national attention for their expertise in this matter, as well as a generational farmer, geophysics, with expertise in the karst geology of our region, a local economist who specializes in public policy and government finance, and a community advocate, Lena Schlossberg, who's with the Coalition to Protect Prince William County, who's done a lot of advocacy work on data centers. Our community is flying two of these experts out and has rallied together with our own funds to offer this meeting to the community and greatly appreciates your attendance here. I believe more information will be emailed out and it can be found on Facebook. Thank you all so much. Thanks, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you. I wanted to thank Mr. Eakins for what you said earlier about the county failing us. I think that's a good, I appreciate the acknowledgement. And I think that it is our duty as citizens to always make sure that we hold our leaders accountable and bring up, you know, questions that we have. And so I wanted to comment. I think that Mr. Oates's remarks. About conspiracy theories. Is it really disparaging? A lot of people have questions and they may not understand certain things. So rather than that kind of tone, I would appreciate just, you know, okay, why don't we, you know, explain, you know, have a conversation instead of that. Anyway, that's all I had to say. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? All right. I'm closing this thing. Board of Supervisors comment. Look to my left first. I know I've got one to my right. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, I had the privilege of attending on March the 12th the Greater Good Awards. I think Supervisor Gurumont and yourself were also there. At that service, there was a Lifetime Community Impact Award given. And that was given to former Chairman Richard Schickel. Most of us that worked with him knew a Ms. Dickey Schickel. I had the privilege of being key staff with the school division for the school board, with the school board, and presenting projects. Some when we were negotiating purchasing land. And then had the opportunity to sit in the audience and come to the podium and speak. Being asked tough questions. And Chairman Schickel was always a gentleman. And he worked. They mentioned that starting with Millbrook High School, I can list six new schools right offhand. Doing tough times, doing the housing boom, the crash, and so on. And working with Mr. Chairman, Mr. Schickel as the chairman. And his work. And his work. His commitment to the county in doing the right thing. And treating everyone with respect was important. And I think it was a great choice. And certainly congratulations to Mr. Schickel and his family for being recognized. Also, I'm going to go through this list. And it will be up to Supervisor Gurumont and yourself. Mr. Chairman, to make sure that I'm correct. I'm going by my little check marks. And hopefully I got the check marks in the right place. Small business of the year was Cape and Valley Bank. Non-profit of the year was CCAP. Entrepreneur of the year was Smarty Pants Medicine. Citizen of the year was Dr. Tracy Fitzsimmons at Shenandoah. University. Large business of the year was Timber Ridge School. And Emerging Leader Award went to Lauren Klaus, Winchester Rescue Mission. And Career Pathways Impact Award went to Winchester Public Schools, Sarah Weinstein. So I wanted to point that out. And again, congratulations to Mr. Schickel and all those people. Thank you. And all those people that were recognized. Very positive, uplifting event. And hopefully I get invited back next year. If you want to speak, I have another item. Nope, nope. I'm just. We're in the fourth week of a war with Iran. Many of our sons and daughters of Frederick County are serving our country. And have been operating in high alert combat roles or combat support roles. And some of the most dangerous parts of the world. I specifically wore a U.S. flag on my lapel tonight in their honor. Whatever your political beliefs or opinion on this war are, we all should be able to support the sons and daughters of Frederick County who are serving our country. And I've actually carried this with me for a couple weeks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I walk around the house every day and say, oh, my God, it's not money to go to work. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It takes coming together for good causes. This is one of the things I cherish most about the United States. We are a nation not only of dreamers, but also of fixers. We've looked at our land and people and said time and time again, this is not good enough. We can do better. So I'd leave you with Mr. Rather's thoughts on patriotism. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Very good. Anybody else? Yes, sir. Supervisor Akins. I've got a few things. One, there's a few things said tonight that just kind of bothered me. And so one of the things is that transparency is important for us as a board and a community. And as a community, I feel like we've lost community trust. That's the reason I said it earlier. And I'm happy to acknowledge, I know there's been conversations, open eds on the paper, that kind of stuff, to the fact that some of us may or may not have interest in data centers or what have you. And I can openly, confidently, and honestly say that I have no ties to a data center as a developer, nothing directly in place. If I'm guilty of owning stock, like probably many of you in this room, and have a 401k that might have Facebook or whoever they are, then I'm guilty. But I think everybody else in the room is as well, possibly. Additionally, another thing that rubbed me wrong or concerned me was that the seven of us up here on these chairs, we're not the ones selling the land, guys. It's the farmers. Okay? And all we're trying to do is vet what, should or shouldn't come to the county. Okay? I am not going to. I'm pro-landowner rights. Okay? Does that mean that I am pro-data center? Definitely not. That means that I'm in support of the farmer to be able to do what he wants to do with his land and try to protect Frederick County along the way. But I just, when one of the citizens brought up the fact that we were selling, the land of Frederick County, I was like, you know what? That just doesn't sell right. And to make sure that we are being transparent with everybody here, I just felt like I needed to get that off my chest and say that. So, thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Anybody else? All right. Okay. Vice Chair. One thing before I adjourn. There are a lot of people I hear from Opec and that spoke. That's my district. And there are other folks that spoke. I spoke up here about data centers. I have a position paper that I can e-mail you. It's Robert Wells' position statement. It has nothing to do with anybody else on the board. It's just mine. I'd be more than happy to share that with you individually if you want to give me your e-mail. I'll be more than happy to send it to you. So, if you want to come up tonight and put your name and e-mail down, I'll go home and e-mail you, not tonight, but sometime this week. You'll get that copy. And you're welcome to share that with whomever. I put a lot of time and a lot of thought into it. So, hopefully that might tell you where I stand on those things. Thank you very much. And, Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. We are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you.
