Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-03-11
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=334
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Please stand. Pledge of Allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. And to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, folks, next thing up is adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion? Mr. Chairman, I move that we adopt the agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Anybody opposed? Okay. We're good to go. Next item up is citizen's comment. Madam Clerk. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Mary Margaret Barke. Hi. Please state your name, magisterial district, and three minutes. My name is Mary Margaret Barke. I'm in the Back Creek District, and my home is in Kernstown in Woodbrook, Virginia, a quiet 55-plus, retirement community. I'm here after learning this afternoon that today's agenda involves a request to the county buffer requirements between multifamily structures and dissimilar adjoining housing types. Isn't that backwards? A buffer reduction between similar housing types might be reasonable. Reducing the buffer between different types is not. We all know that request is coming from Woodbrook neighbor, Kline Manor. Last month, Kline Manor sought a zoning variance. The county approved a zoning variance to reduce the buffer on their property from the required 75 feet to 25. Recognizing that they do not qualify for that variance, they asked that their application be put on hold. And now, because they couldn't get what they want by following the rules, they are trying to change the rules. As all the reasons Kline Manor neighbors opposed the variance are still valid. All the reasons the county code does not prevent development of Kline Manor. Any perceived hardship is self-inflicted as the County Buffer Ordinance was already in place prior to the applicant choosing to acquire the property. The requested reduction is clearly contrary to the purpose of the Ordinance. Approval of that reduction would inflict hardship on Kline Manor neighbors, causing a loss of green space and privacy, an increase in noise and pollution, environmental impacts on stormwater runoff and wildlife habitat, and disrupting the character of the neighborhood and the quality of the life of those living there. Thank you. would be difficult to think of two communities more different, 55-plus single-family homes and a busy multifamily apartment complex. I want to make clear that I am not opposing the development of this property. I do wish none of the neighboring properties would be developed. I would prefer a park. But I recognize the limits of my preferences and must work within those limits. Klein Manor needs to do the same. I am concerned about the Klein Manor plan involving high-density rentals instead of owner-residents. But if I am unable to influence a change in that plan, at the very least, I must insist that the current county buffer ordinance be enforced to protect Woodbrook standard of living as much as possible. Last month, on short notice, Klein Manor neighbors rallied to submit 75 letters in opposition of this buffer reduction. Those signatures have continued to come in. Please consider what you would want for yourself. Would you want this type of housing built right on top of your home? Or your parents' home? I respectfully ask the board to deny this buffer reduction. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you, ma'am. Richard Shopp. Thank you, ma'am. Richard Shopp at Back Creek, a neighborhood directly behind this development. It's an architect for over 60 years. I know the reason for buffers, and there are many. But I've reduced it to... The eight I'm most concerned about. Separation, privacy, noise, abatement, discouraged access, because it's a large building, which is another problem, the size of it on that property, intruder barrier, and headlight intrusion. I just think it should be enforced in this case. If they would do a smaller building and respect the buffers, we wouldn't be here. Thank you very much. Thanks, sir. Abby Lisk. Hi, good evening. I'm Abby Lisk in the Back Creek District. I'm also the community manager for Woodbrook Village, but a resident of Frederick County as well. I do hope that you all will consider this matter seriously. We are opposed. I am opposed as a resident of changing these buffer requirements. We've moved into Frederick County with a lot of growth, not necessarily opposed to that. But there is a quality of life, and building communities, one on top of the other, is not conducive to why people move to Frederick County or choose to stay here. The buffer variance request was submitted. We took quick action to oppose that, came up with 75 letters in opposition in basically two days. And today have another 80 signatures of neighbors that would be opposed to that. We ask you to take that into consideration. This is a little corner of Frederick County that has 355 and over communities. Another small community that doesn't have an HOA. And putting an apartment complex right on top of them is just not conducive to that environment. When you look at the housing market, it's not conducive to that. It's not conducive to that. It's not conducive to that. And so we're not opposed to the community, just the size and how close a road would be to our backyard. So I hope that you'll take that into consideration, not just for this particular property. It's called Klein Manor because that's the potential buyer's project for it. But any project that is putting an apartment or any community in that area in that area, it's going to be a great opportunity to get that community that close to another. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Kurt Krieger. Good evening, members of the board. My name is Kurt Krieger. I live in the Back Creek District. I've developed housing in about seven states, including Virginia. I want to caution you against changing your ordinance for an outlier, one particular outlying example. I don't have any particular interest in or knowledge of the Woodbrook case and why it's come before you. But in your comprehensive plan preparations, you've already identified a need for affordable housing. Buffer adjustments to the existing code could make it more difficult to produce affordable housing. And when I look around the county and see good examples of mixing types, one in particular, is that the back creek district is just west of Stephen City as you leave town. It's got detached single-family in front and then it's got attached multifamily in the back. It's a nice way to feather the density. So what I would ask that you do before you take a change is apply this change to things that are on the ground that you like so that you're not precluding things in the future. Because your ordinance will, of course, affect everybody and change everything. So this is really important. Thank you. Thank you. It's really perhaps an inappropriate application of a code change for just one particular outlier. So I urge you to consider the long-term effects on affordable housing. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Carissa, and I'm having trouble reading the last name. Sorry, I wrote it for you. Thank you for your time this evening. Just real quick. I'm Gainesboro District, live at Lake Holiday, been a Frederick County resident since 2001. And I'm here just to... Ma'am, your name. Give me your name. Carissa DeWicke. Thank you so much. You're welcome. Sorry. Just to quickly, I'm part of a buildings and grounds committee at Lake Holiday. Asked on behalf of that committee to just address part of your agenda, which is we're seeking to have portable restrooms allowed on some of our common areas, specifically three. I'm not quite sure, since I've lived there in 2001, if we've been compliant. But we are now compliant. And we're going to remove those three porta potties or portable restrooms from those public areas. But I'd like to just address the language and maybe an adjustment specific to Lake Holiday. Right now, those three areas are open to our general population, which is around anywhere from 900 to 1,800 homes and lots. They're not all homes, but they are lots, which means we could have that many people frequenting our space. And at least if it's not a permanent thing, but at least maybe to address a seasonal, our lake is technically open March through November, so some type of timeframe. So just wanted to give some input into the discussion that you'll be having later. So thank you for your time. Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Chairman, that's all that we have signed up on the list. Thank you, Madam Clerk. Is there anyone else that would like to speak regarding anything? Anything on the agenda? Hi, my name is Leslie Spencer. I'm from the Gainesboro District. First, I'd like to give a big cheer for Wendy Dorsey on the CEA being reappointed. She brings a lot of great thoughts and energy to our meetings. So ditto to what a lot of people spoke before me. Buffers between multifamily housing and single family homes serve an important purpose. They protect neighborhood character. Reduce stormwater. Run off. Preserve trees and create green space that helps moderate heat and drought conditions. In a rapidly growing county like Frederick County, these buffers may become even more important over time, not less. If the current standard has helped protect neighborhoods and environmental quality, we should be cautious about weakening it without clear data showing why that change is necessary. At a minimum, I would ask that the public be given a clear comparison of the current buffer requirements. We have already discussed the differences in the data that we have used in the past. I would also like to see our county undertake a tree canopy study that looks at not only where our trees are today but also at the health of our community. It can be powerful to look at how the tree canopy correlates with things like school absenteeism among children or emergency room visits related to respiratory issues. I've seen these maps and they do correlate. could help guide smarter planning decisions for the future. Frederick County is a place of incredible beauty, and I hope we continue to think creatively about how growth can work with nature rather than against it. There are inspiring neighborhood designs around walkability, trees, and green space, such as the Cul-de-sac Tempe in Arizona, one of the first walkable communities in the United States, the Chautauqua Institute community model, in Chautauqua, New York. That's beautiful. And Serenbe in Georgia. They combine agri-hoods, commercial walkable districts. It's a beautiful neighborhood. It's won many awards. Those ideas would help me bring a waiver towards a buffer as long as the tree canopy was still there, the open space was still there, and less impervious spaces. We've seen the alleyway zoning ordinances introduce more. We've seen more impervious surfaces and less green spaces when a developer came forward just a few weeks ago. So I'm asking that we just take a moment and think about better designs and which waivers we can accept in the process going forward. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else want to speak? Hello, sir. State your name, magisterial district, and it's three minutes. Hello. I am Dan Yang, a Winchester resident. I was at the data center informational meeting. And while you may shame your constituents, the people that you serve... Sir, wait a minute. Is this regarding anything on our agenda right now? I wish to talk about the data centers. Then you're going to wait until the end under citizen comments. All right. All right. Thanks, sir. Anybody else want to talk about anything on the agenda? All right. I'm going to close this part. Citizen comments. Next thing up is consent agenda. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we accept the consent agenda as approved. All right. I got a motion. Second. All right. I have a second. This is a roll call, though. Supervisor Oates. Aye. Supervisor Wendler. Aye. Vice Chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Lero. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Goumin. Aye. The Chair votes aye. All right. Consent agenda is off the list. Thank you. Next thing up is Board of Supervisors comments. Does anybody have any? I'm going to make. Okay. Mr. Bolhoffer, I'm going to start this off about the work session because we actually have another correction here, sir. So for those that don't know, we have to advertise our rates, whether it's the increase or you know, for whether it's an increase for, you know, your real estate tax or whatever. But the whole budget actually gets advertised at that time. And we have one thing we got to clean up. So Mr. Bolhoffer, Supervisor Oates pointed this out. We were talking about 8% increase calculation for the schools operating based off their fiscal year 26. Budget, which was $113,873,537. We've been talking about an item of the calculation being $8,977,883 when actually an 8% would be $9,109,883. $9,109,883. $9,109,883. $9,109,883. $9,109,883. $9,109,883. $9,109,883. $9,109,883. $9,109,883. $9,109,883. $9,109,883. $9,109,883. $9,109,883. $9,109,883. $9,109,883. So I want to make sure that we're clear on this and that the supervisors can vote accordingly and or if it can be fixed, we all agree to 8% when we had the work session. Yes, it was my understanding under earlier work sessions that the board's intention was to do 8% times last year's operating expenditures. I guess the confusion was. Is that 8% times last year's operating expenditures or is that 8% times last year's operating expenditures minus the $1.65 million that you would have had for buses? If you were to do it the second way, that amount comes to $7,327,883. If you do it 8% times the actual operating expenditures, it's the $9,109,883. So that is, it's the board's decision which way they want to calculate that. Supervisor Oates. I'm not going to weigh in for or against, but I think the problem was we probably shouldn't have taken out the buses when you computed the 8%. That just threw a monkey wrench in the whole calculation. If you just simply said 8% above what they got last year, it just cleans it all up. I agree 100%. All right. So if the board agreed to 8%, that would be $9,109,883. $9,109,883. That's the number. Because we have to advertise this. So... Yeah, it's basically 8% of last year's school budget. Yeah, it's 8%. So... For clarification, are we still doing the buses? Yes, but they're coming out of... Capital. Capital fund. And we're still doing the tier one. That's correct. Correct. I just want to make sure my notes are right. Okay. Thank you. All right. Mr. Walker, if you would please let... I know they advertised that rate. So advertise that, please. As soon as I do my presentation, I'll go upstairs and tell you. Thank you. Thank you, Eric. Thank you, Eric and everybody. So now you see how part of the budget process works, folks. Any other comments on the supervisor? All right. We're good on that. County officials. County officials. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We discussed this at a previous meeting. We have the opportunity to refund three bonds and affect your refinance in debt because the interest rates have dropped significantly. The net present value of savings of doing this over 10 years is an average of $106,000, D Zusammen. D Council. dollars per year for 10 years. So there's significant savings. We're required to do a resolution to move forward with that. If you notice, we made one change at the last minute. Within the resolution, there was a stop gap number of 3 percent. We changed it to 4.5. That simply tells the organization doing this changing that if for some reason the interest rates increase significantly and our net present value were to go below 4.5, we would not move forward with this. Interest rates are very steady. I don't think there's any risk of this happening. We're in good shape. The cost of the bond attorney for this is $40,000. That's fairly standard. We were offered a request from one of the larger financing companies to assist us with this process. However, it was so very simple, there was no need, and the cost for that probably would approach six figures. And we were working with the state organization, so we felt no need. So, our recommendation, we think it's a good idea. It's good savings. Any questions for Mr. Bolhofer? Looking left, looking right. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Bolhofer. Board, how would you like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, if we need a motion, I would move to go ahead and apologize for the move to save the money on our interest rates. Okay. We got a motion. Do I have a second? Second. Okay. Because I need a roll call vote. Okay. Supervisor Gouvermeier. Aye. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Lear. Aye. Vice Chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Supervisor Oates. Aye. Chair votes aye. Okay, Mr. Bolhofer, we're good to go. Next item up is appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. 9A is the first one, Conservation Easement Authority. Who would like to take this one? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Orndorff. I move to reappoint Wendy Dorsey. We have a motion. Second. All right. We have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? All right. Carries. Thank you, Supervisor Orndorff. Next thing up, next one up is Parks and Recreation Redbud District. Mr. Chairman, I would like to reappoint Mr. Dennis Grubbs to the Parks and Rec Commission. Spoke to him a couple of times in the last week. He enjoys being part of this team and wishes to continue to serve, and I recommend we have him back again. Thank you. That's wonderful. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. All right. All those in favor? Aye. Good to go. All right. We have no committee business. We have non-planning. Next thing up is going to be a public hearing regarding planning commission business. Mr. Chairman, at this time? Mr. Chairman, at this time, I must disqualify myself from participating in this item in accordance with Section 2.2-3112A of the Virginia Code due to a personal interest where I am the owner of the business that is the applicant and which owns the real property that is the subject of the application. I have filed the required disclosure statement with the clerk. Thank you, Supervisor Akins. Okay. Mr. Bidner. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Eric Bidner, planner. This is a request by Akins & Allen LP LLC for a proffer amendment of a property approximately .2 acres, currently zoned as B2 General Business, located at 700 Ross Street in the Stonewall District. The proffers to be amended were approved as part of REZ 1403 by the then Board of Supervisors. Here you have the property outlined in purple. It is partly located within the bounds of the city of Winchester, which is outlined here in purple. The house currently on site is nonconforming as it's within 20 feet of the public right-of-way and has not approved in the General Business District. As it has been vacant for more than two years, it has lost its legal nonconforming status and cannot be used as a residence. Here we have the current zoning. As you can see, it's located in B2 General Business, flanked by General Business in the rear, and across the right-of-way you have residential performance. This is the current zoning. This is the current zoning. This is the long-range land use. It is located in the residential land use designation in the long-range plan. The proffer statement restricts the uses to hotel and parking lot only and would remove the current restriction that it can only be utilized as a parking lot. It would also include additions to proffer C by adding a 25-foot setback from Ross Street. Staff would like to note that that is a requested reduction from the current 35-foot setback report. Staff would like to note that that is a requested reduction from the current 35-foot setback report. Staff would like to note that that is a requested reduction from the current 35-foot setback report. Additionally, there is a 10-foot parking setback, which aligns with current county ordinance, and that they will be developed in conformance with the City of Winchester parking lot design standards. They also proffer to keep their existing proffer to eliminate the existing access on Ross Street and to use an internal connection with the Hampton Inn. The positives of this rezoning is that the use restriction would prohibit any uses that would not be considered harmonious with the surrounding residential uses. The positives of this rezoning is that the use restriction would prohibit any uses that would not be considered harmonious with the surrounding residential uses. And the removal of an existing entrance is an improvement to the Ross Street. Couple of concerns to note for the Board. The B-2 district is generally not considered to be consistent with the residential future land use category. To that end, and to mitigate those impacts of the applicant has proffered use restrictions, and the proffer sees reduced setback as a reduction of current setback standards. I will reference the County Attorney's memo within the staff report. The Board should consider the reductions to the zoning ordinance are a desirable proffer as for the county. at anyDC c. honorable proffers for the county to accept. Here we have the proposed GDP, or general development plan for the project, showcasing the three-story building with a 25-foot setback from Ross Street. Currently, this would require 35, which would be set roughly at the dotted line here. This is presented to the board for a public hearing. Following a public hearing, staff are seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this on February 18th and recommended approval. At this point, the applicant and staff are available for any questions. Thank you, Mr. Bitter. Mr. Supervisor, Vice Chair Wells, any questions? Pardon? Any questions? I've been to the property. I'm very familiar with Ross Street. As far as the setback goes, it's probably a good thing to allow the change in the setback for this particular project. It's a piece of property. I think it will benefit what you can do with the property and what you can't, and will make it a better piece for that area. So I would be in favor of allowing the setback to change and also changing from a B-2 to be a general business. All right. Anybody else on my right? Anybody on my left? I'd just say if you're going to remove blight. Just do it. I'm just asking for Mr. Bitter. Yeah. If we're going to remove blight, like an empty house, jack, and replace it with something that's a viable business, it just makes sense to make that move. All right. So are we good on questions for Mr. Bitter? Thanks, sir. Thank you. All right. This is a public hearing, so I'll open up the public hearing. Madam Clerk, anybody sign up? Alexander Ritter. Mr. Ritter, state your name and your magisterial district, please, sir. My name is Alexander Ritter, and I'm a Peckin District resident. Tonight, this board is considering a rezoning application submitted by Jason Akins, who is a board member. He applied for commercial zoning exceptions on property he owns. County staff, employees who answer to this board were required to evaluate his application, push back on his request, and negotiate his proffers while he holds authority. It's not a technicality. This is a supervisor who I feel is using the machinery of county government to advance his own real estate interests. County staff explicitly noted that his proffer was structured to make the zoning ordinance less restrictive, atypical, in their words. However, this is not just about one property. This board regularly makes decisions that shape the long-term growth patterns of our county. What gets built, where it gets built, and how our rural communities absorb that change. Those decisions carry consequences that last for decades. This isn't an attack on Akins' integrity or the competence of the county's staff in determining, making their recommendations. Rather, or it's not even suggesting that the rezoning would have negative consequences for the community. However, the process of rezoning involves technical evaluations, negotiations, and legal nuances that are not always obvious to the average resident. And that's why I feel that public trust depends on impartial decision making. Mr. Akins' simultaneous positions as a developer and a board member in charge of county staff raises questions about whether the public can fully trust that the decisions being made are in the county's interest or in his own private gain. The question I want to leave you with. Is how can we ensure that transparency and accountability are decisions being, that decisions being made are of that nature? Thank you. Thanks, sir. No one else has signed up. Is there anyone else that would like to speak during this public hearing? Okay. I close the public hearing. Board, how would you like to handle this? Or discussion? Any discussion? I concur with what Mr. Guggenheim said. Mr. Goubremont said earlier, I've been over to the property numerous times. My church used to rent the basement of the hotel over there, Hampton Inn. I took a recent ride over there, and obviously, I think it's just an upgrade for that neighborhood to have that old property torn down in a brand new building put up there. So we're in support of the project. Mr. Goubremont, you already spoke, gave your remark. I did take a drive over as well, and I agree. You know, I think that's part of your due diligence is looking at the area. So I will entertain a motion. Mr. Chairman, I would move to a motion to accept a rezoning number 01-26 of 700 Wall Street, Akins and Allen LPLLP to rezone the acreage as stated in the request. Okay, I've got a motion. Second. We got a second. This is a roll call vote. Supervisor Oates. Aye. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Vice Chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Goubremont. Aye. And the chair votes aye. Okay, this passes. Thank you, everybody. Next thing up is Planning Commission Business. The item, for us, is a 13A information and discussion on portable restrooms code amendment. That's perfect. Yeah. All right. We don't have a presentation. Are there any questions for Mr. Pearson? My only question, help us out here a little bit. So we have a request from the Lake Holiday Residence. Lake Holiday Residence Council Board President Sean sailors. Dr Scott, The advisory board done the work美味, construction. So this would be an amendment to county code to allow for an exception for portable restrooms to be located. We haven't crafted the exact language for it, but more than likely seasonally at either public recreation or common open space facilities for purposes similar to what the Lake Holiday residents are asking for. Mr. Chairman, I'll just go ahead and make a motion. I'll go ahead and make a motion to have the planning staff dig into this a little bit more, hold the public hearings as necessary, just really dive into the fact on the seasonality, special events to make sure that not just Lake Holiday potentially, but to be able to have portable restrooms as needed for those sorts of things, for public and community places. All righty. Do I have a second? I would second that. Okay. This requires a roll call that, giving you direction, Mr. Pearson. Okay. I just, I know I've been on the board, so we've talked about these situations before, and I'd just like to take a look at it so we're clear on what we're doing. I don't think there's a big problem with it. We've done it before in other areas, but I think it would be good for transparency to let people talk about it. Absolutely. Yep. Yep. All righty. All right. Supervisor Gouvermont. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Lero. Aye. Vice Chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Leary. Aye. Supervisor Leary. Aye. Supervisor Warner. Aye. Supervisor Oates. Aye. Chair votes aye. Okay. There you go. There's one direction for you. 13B is coming up. Information discussion. Zoning ordinance amendment for apartment buffer standards. I'll give another quick summary, if that's all right, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, that's perfect. Just give us a summary, because this is going to be going to public hearing as well, right? Yeah. So this is another request for an ordinance amendment. This one actually originated from a developer. The residents speaking were correct. It was from the Klein Manor project, which this board, sorry, some of this board will remember when they came through for low income housing tax credit through the board for designation. Goodness, I think two years ago now. So they were before the BZA for a variance application, asked to table that request, and are now pursuing a county code amendment that will make their project work as they originally intended. So they approached myself and Supervisor Ornduff to start the process for a code amendment. If the board were to act to begin, this process, it would then go to the Development Review and Regulations Committee for review after staff has reviewed it, compared it to other county codes and provided a draft ordinance for them to review, then come back to the Planning Commission for a public hearing, and then the board for a public hearing and a final decision on whether or not you want to amend the code. It is scoped right now as an amendment to the code for all RP properties in Frederick County. It's not specific to Klein Manor. It's amending the zoning ordinance to apply to any, any situation in Frederick County that resembles this apartments adjoining other types of housing. I hope that's an adequate summary. I'm happy to answer any questions. Yes, I do remember when it came through. So, any questions, Supervisor Ornds? Yeah, I think I've been a proponent for a while of revisiting the buffers really in all the residential district, not just apartments, and let the Planning Commission, it's their job to look at that. Perhaps something to be increased. Perhaps something to be increased. Perhaps something to be increased. I think we also maybe need to look at something like in this instance where it's a solid wall to separate communities, especially if they're looking at a decrease. But I'm not endorsing shrinking them or enlarging them or anything else, but I don't think it should be specific for one developer or one type of housing unit. I think we need to look at updating our ordinance. It's been quite a while since we looked at buffers across the entire RP and R4 districts. Okay. Vice Chair? I would agree with that. I'm not interested in changing for one particular project. But, again, it probably would behoove us to go back and study our direction and see what we want to do. But at this point in time, I say we stay the way we are. All right. To my left. Okay. Okay. So. Supervisor Orndorff, would you like to make a motion? Yes, Mr. Chairman. And I agree with what I've heard, particularly from Supervisor Oates, a broader look. So I move to direct staff to amend County Code Chapter 165 and authorize the necessary public hearings to do so. This amendment should seek to evaluate and amend the residential separation buffers relative to multifamily structures. More specifically, while the current standard may be in place, the current standard may be in place. Staff should evaluate best practices and ensure that dissimilar adjoining housing types are still adequately buffered and that the overall height of the residential units is considered as well. Okay. We have a motion. Do I have a second? I'll second that. And, again, the developer may end up getting upset at me and the plan might come back with a bigger buffer. But then they're doing their job, right? I'll second that. Okay. So we have a motion. We have a second. This time. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Supervisor Wanderer? Aye. Supervisor Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Supervisor Aikens? Aye. Supervisor Gouvernement? Aye. The chair votes aye. Okay, Mr. Pearson. Does that give you a clear? Perfect. Okay. Board liaison reports. Do we have any? All right. We're good on board liaison reports. All right. Next up is citizen comments. Madam Clerk. Yes, sir. Thank you. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. Adam Stein. Adam, you know the routine. Name, Magisterial District. Three minutes, please. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. Wait a minute, Adam. Your mic's not on. Press the button. There you go, buddy. Perfect. Thank you. Good evening, members of the Board. My name is Adam Stein. I'm a resident of the Opecan District. I am a Sharando Band parent, and I serve as president of the Sharando High School Band Boosters. First, I want to say that the work that you have, thank you for the work you do for our county. I know the budget decisions before you are complex, and every dollar must be carefully considered. But I'm here tonight to ask you to fully fund the school board's budget request. Programs like our band are a perfect example of why this funding is important. Since opening in 1993, Sharando has been named a Virginia Honor Band 23 times. There is an established history of success and growth within our band, all of which we can be proud of. Today, nearly 10% of the student population at Sharando participates in band-related activities, making it one of, if not the largest and most inclusive student programs in the county. That percentage is expected to grow even more next year, thanks to the amazing band programs at our middle schools. For many students, band is far more than an elective. It is their primary connection to school. It provides structure, accountability, and a sense of belonging. Our program is intentionally inclusive, and our booster organization works hard to keep students' fees as low as possible, so that cost is never a barrier to participation. Truth is, programs like ours increasingly rely on parent volunteers and fundraising just to maintain basic opportunities for our students. Parents volunteer countless hours, we run fundraisers, we write letters, and we reach out to families and friends to support the students and the activities that they love. We do it because we believe in our students. Fundraising should enhance a program, not replace the foundational support that public education, education, and education requires. Beyond music ed, band teaches critical life skills like self-advocacy, responsibility, collaboration, time management, and professionalism. Many of our band students are supported by 504 plans or IEPs, and their participation in our band directly reinforces skills outlined in those plans, including executive functioning, focus, and social interaction, all in a structured, real-world environment. Any cuts to the school board request would be catastrophic, not only for our band program, but nearly every program in our school system, possibly resulting in a 15% reduction in the cost of education. The program is a great way to support our students, and we are committed to supporting them. As a result, we are bringing in a $3.5 billion in student funding, and our funding is increasing with the current $4.5 billion cut in school funding across the board. Any decrease in funding forces our teachers, families, and booster organizations to pick up the slack, work that much harder, and raise that much more money just to maintain the same level of care, service, and opportunity our students deserve. This goes far beyond just our band. I'm here advocating for all students of Frederick County. We need to ensure that our schools are funded in a way that is equitable, sustainable, and reflective of the educational needs in our growing county. And I'll say this next part plainly. If fully funding our schools requires an increase in the tax rates, do it. Do it. Please do it. I am fully in support of that. Our students and the future of this county are worth that investment. Thank you for your time tonight. Appreciate it. Thanks, sir. Elizabeth Ayler. Hello. Elizabeth Ayler, Back Creek. How are you doing? Thank you all so much. I'm really grateful to be here with all of you again. I'm just going to speak really briefly on trying to bridge the gap between our governed and the people. I know that we had a really hard fallout the other day with data centers. And I just humbly request that maybe we revisit a little bit to be able to kind of have a public discussion. I think our comprehensive planning in 2050 is really exciting. I love what the city planners are doing. And I think if we build some more time to really do some analysis of how these data centers can impact all of us with our communal resources, air, water, land, security. These are major decisions and these decisions just don't have enough metrics or analysis to be able to understand how it will affect our beautiful and amazing valley. You know, we're on a karst limestone geology and it's an incredibly sensitive eco-structure. A lot of these data centers and the output and the sludge that they're coming out, even with closed systems, are filled with nitrates and chemicals that affect all of us. The Opecan water system not only affects the Frederick County water people, but it affects me and me as a homeowner on a well. I have three kids. What happens if half of our population loses their wells? It will decimate our entire population. It will be a huge loss for the entire population of people here. So I just humbly request that we go really slow in this process in order to understand the impact it's having on other counties, to do hydrogeological analysis, to be able to understand what we need as a community. And maybe if we go out to the public and really talk about the risks that we have in regards to our budget and our funding and our taxes, and tell people that we need you to rally. We need you to come out. We need skilled workers. We need brilliant Frederick County minds in order to contribute to industry trends and how we can create unique and independent ways that we can be sovereign and protect our county from the onslaught of other people's industries so that we can be more independent. These are all of our resources and I just beg you guys to go very slow and give us time to prepare to understand this. Not only for these resources and data centers, but in disaster preparedness and understanding how if we had a blackout on our grid system, or if we had a blackout in the internet, what would that do to us and how fast could chaos ensue? And what is our responsibility to the citizens to protect them against ourselves? You know, we really have an opportunity here. We have old skills. We have new minds. We can bridge the gap in community, create civilian corps in our student populations, come together and be an honorable representatives and people who protect this beautiful, gorgeous, sacred valley that we all live in. I don't know about y'all know, but lightning bugs, fireflies are about to die. Can you imagine a world? How is money? Could you ever compare to sitting around a campfire and look at the lightning bugs as a Virginian, as an American? We just I just beg you to go slow and thoughtfully through this process. And I really appreciate it. I'm going to be boots on the ground and all of these meetings to help out wherever I can. So thank you. I appreciate you. Thank you, ma'am. Cadence Thompson. OK, give us your name and your master serial district. My name is Xavier and my name is Cadence. We are from the Quebec district. We are proud, proud members of our school board of our school's band program, a program that has grown into one of the best bands in the state of Virginia. We don't say that lightly. We say that because of the superior ratings we've earned in the competitions we placed in, in the countless hours we've spent in the school board. And the countless hours of rehearsals that happened long after the final bell rings. But tonight, we're not just here to talk about awards. We're here to talk about why this program matters so deeply and why we need full funding to continue performing at the level our school and community expect. Competition entries, transport costs, instrument repairs, all of these are ongoing expenses. And when funding falls short, the burden often shifts to families and fundraisers. Not every student has the same ability to contribute financially. If we truly want our band program to remain accessible to everyone. Not just those who can afford it. Then we need strong financial support from our districts. But funding band isn't just about equipment. It's about people. I am a student in our band who has an IEP. In many classrooms, focusing can be difficult. Processing information quickly can feel overwhelming. Sitting still for an hour can feel impossible. But when I walk into the band room, something changes. In a band, there's structure, there's rhythm. There's a clear goal. I know that when the conductor raises their baton, I need to be ready. I count beats. I watch carefully. I listen to the people around me. And somehow, in the middle of all that sound, I can focus. The repetition of rhythms help organize my thoughts. The physical act of playing my instrument gives me energy direction. The clear expectation gives me confidence in band. I am not just defined by accommodations or modifications. I am defined by contributions. Feeling of success carries with me into my other classes. Band doesn't just teach me mics, teach me music. It helps me develop focus, discipline, and self-belief. I'm a girl in the program who once said something that stuck. I said that band is one of the main reasons I came to school. Think about that. For me, band isn't just another period in the schedule. It's my safe place. It's where my friends are. It's where I feel accepted. It's where I know I belong. On days when stress feels overwhelming, when classes feel hard, and when I question myself, I feel like I'm not alone. I know I can walk into the band room and be part of something bigger than all of that. That sense of belonging can change a student's entire experience. It can improve attendance. It can improve mental health. It can create stability when you fund band your funding connection. It teaches teamwork. In band, there are no bench warmers. Every part matters from the highest flute note to the lowest trombone to the tuba tone. If one section is missing, the sound is incomplete. When we travel to competitions across Virginia, we don't just represent ourselves. We represent the school district. We represent our team. We represent our students. We represent our students. We represent our town. We represent our community. Every student deserves access to high quality art education, regardless of background or financial situations. Band has shape. Thank you. You did a great job. Thank you. Oliver Tarble. My name is Oliver Tarble. I come from the Opecan District and I am currently enrolled at Sherina High School and Mountain Vista Governor's School. However, I am here to speak about the budget of the overall education program. I would like to preface this speech by stating that the decisions that all of you make will affect hundreds of future students and their families. As far back as I can remember, I have known about this program and I have had some sort of attachment to band. My sister was not a large figure, but I loved going to her family's school. I would stare in awe at the marching band, sway at the concerts, and congratulate her for every single success. Her years in the program ended bittersweetly, but she has moved on. Ever since she had been in the program, more funding came from band fees and donations. She was reminded constantly of this, and I heard about it quite often. We were fortunate enough to be able to afford her instrument, however, other people were not. The necessary repairs from using instruments cannot be paid for if there is no money to pay for it. Our instruments and overall equipment are very old. One of our speakers is being held together right now. Our microphones are old and often they do not work. Our uniforms are constantly being temporarily tailored to fit us, just long enough to survive the season, and often there are not enough uniforms and many people are fitted with ones that are way too large. Despite all these hardships, we succeed and win, but it's still hard. Our band fee may be one of the smallest in the state, but that doesn't mean that everybody can afford it. Our director, Tyler Endy, has stated that if this budget cut is approved, our fees will double. Not everybody can afford the fee to begin with. Many are fortunate. We have a lot of plans and personal fundraisers are offered, including myself. However, not everybody has the time to go around asking for money, and some people don't have the resources for that. We try our hardest to fundraise as a community of band members, but even then, sometimes it is not enough. Some of my fondest memories have been through this program, and some hardships have come with that, but all those hardships have turned into success. Being able to compete against other bands at competitions, seeing friends from other bands there, and just being able to form bonds with people that I care about have been major parts of my life. Sections form tight bonds, and we compete against each other just for fun. When I was at the lowest points of my life, this band is the reason that I'm still here, because I thought to myself, how many people would I be letting down? Devon Stein and Tyler Endy have been the best teachers that I have ever had. This started through the band program at Jurando. We fundraise many times every single school year, and yet we still fall short. Ever since I mentioned possibly cutting part of the funding for the education program, I've been able to do that. I've been able to do that. I've been able to do that. I've been able to do that. I've been able to do that. I've been able to do that. We have tried to plan more fundraisers. However, people in this community only have so much generosity to give. People are only usually willing to give if something is in it for them. Year after year, we have proved our excellence at both marching and concert seasons. And this is how we're being repaid? We constantly strive to prove our excellence and to prove that we are the best, and we do. Mrs. Stein and Mr. Endy worked tirelessly every single day to improve this program and improve us as people. After everything I have said, I can only hope that all of you will change your minds if decreasing our funding we work incredibly hard for what we earn and i think it is unfair for our program to decrease our funding so much that we are scraping for cash thank you thank you gary kraus name magisterial district yes sir good evening my name is gary kraus and i live in the shawnee district of frederick county i'm here tonight to discuss data centers and specifically to address the board's interpretation of recent informational meetings as a quote angry mob or unruly crowd i attended that meeting which was recorded and this is a very misguided gaslighting view of what happened what occurred was citizens raising important holistic questions that weren't fully addressed despite numerous experts on stage health and noise impacts were absent from the panel despite citizens raising them repeatedly in the past including in a detailed citizen report i acknowledge there was some rudeness in the speaking out of term but respect must be earned and unfortunately it feels like the board has little respect for the community when there is ignorance of concerns and misrepresentation of a meeting's tone it was described as ugly and an impossible situation but why was the board not present on stage to help good leaders don't lead from the back now to repeat already voiced concerns of the citizens frederick water represented during the meeting said quote we're in a drought but we have water a confusing message that is laughable double speak creeks like the pekin are being used to replenish quarries but elementary science shows this draws from our shared aquifers and waterways his focus is on piped customers i understand that not well users but where will the water for the data centers or any other industrial use come from what recourse will residents have if they have to redrill wells industrial expansion not just data centrals data centers harm pollinators livestock and citizens via noise and other sub-audible frequencies frederick county isn't divide defined by industrial capacity sure we have companies like trex american woodmark etc but our heritage as a fertile bread basket in the shenandoah valley so why are we inviting extractive purely extractive corporations who benefits largely bad bypass local residents into our area the low marginal cost of software now even lower with ai mean profits will flow to distant distant industry giants this type of development does not align with our community's strengths or desires we're constrained on local meat processing why are we not courting new development there or agritech we already have one local farm laurel grove wine farm partnered with university developing such tech so i urge the board to truly listen to constituents or consider stepping in the side of handling disagreement is too much or too challenging a public referendum on data centers which i've recommended in the past remains the best path forward thank you thank you sir chelsea dikus hello my name is chelsea dykus and i reside in the back creek district first of all kudos to all of the band kids that's awesome school fun is great i'm so thankful we've all been working hard in this project and i hope that your funding is very important including band so good job everyone there's so much to to speak about data centers school budget but i'm here to read a comment on behalf of a community member in regards to ice in our communities i've been a resident of the county for seven years i am an asylum seeker due to the situation of my country for the past year i have not been able to sleep because i've had one concern when will ice knock at my door We hear the stories of chaos in Minneapolis and Chicago, yet we hear very little about the things here in the Valley. Last year, a classmate of mine was taken by ICE. He was held at a facility in Farmville and deported to a country he hadn't seen since he was two years old. And every day I wonder, will I be next? Hagerstown is building a holding facility. The Northwestern Regional Juvenile Detention Center, NRJDC, is renewing their contract with ICE. And the sheriff signed a 287G agreement in December. You keep saying we're getting rid of the bad guys, but when over 70% of the people in detention have never been convicted of a crime, I lose faith in believing law enforcement will keep me safe. I pay $400 every two years for a permit that says I can work here legally. Yet my community keeps saying, deport them all to pregnant women, five-year-olds, and your own citizens. I ask myself, do I have to go missing? So people care. To the Board of Supervisors, if there's one thing you can do to help me sleep tonight, it's this. Work to end the 287G and NRJDC agreements. Your constituents are brown. They don't speak English. So what? Do your job right. Show them you care. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Dan Yang. Dan Yang. I don't write this time. Name, Ed. D. I don't write this time. Thank you. My name is Dan Yang. I'm a Winchester resident. I was at the data center informational meeting, and it was a little baffling that no one thought that it was a good idea to have a microphone and a line, just like the one I'm at right now, for the people to voice their concerns and ask their questions that they came to that meeting to speak. Of course, people are going to feel silenced, distrustful, and misled by the format of that meeting and the way that Frederick County has been bulldozing the public on this issue. My own questions submitted in writing. Some were answered. Some were ignored. The double speak at that night was frankly insulting. To have a representative of the water company state that there was no concern over water, despite us being in a historic drought for several of the last few years, the three hottest years in all of recorded history, and at least the last 125,000 years, were 2023, 2024, and 2025. This year will likely be, again, the hottest year in 125,000 years. This year will likely be the hottest year in 125,000 years, due to the coming Super El Nino pattern. This heat and lack of rainfall has depleted our water. Groundwater levels are near the lowest ever recorded. Wells are going dry. To say that there is no concern over water is an insult to our intelligence. The representative from Shenandoah Valley Electric Co-op stated that the costs would not be bared by residents. There would be no impact on our bills by data centers, and that we would not be subsidizing large consumers. Yet data centers are not going to be subsidizing large consumers. Days later, Shenandoah Valley Electric Co-op filed for a rate increase. The residential rate will increase by 4.7%. The large consumers rate will increase by 2.2%. Less than half of the residential rate increase on an already discounted rate. That is, definitionally, mathematically, making the residents subsidize these data centers. We are paying a larger proportion of the shared burden so that these data centers can pollute our air, use our water, consume our power, and concentrate our natural beauty into profits of the 1%. This extraction and destruction of our valley must not be allowed to happen. We share the valley. People have lived in this valley for over 10,000 years, and they have done so by caring for it. The citizens of Winchester City are fighting to stop a casino from negatively impacting our city and the surrounding county. It is on the people of Frederick County to oppose these data centers, as they have been doing and will continue to do so, until your representatives finally decide to listen to you. The Board should immediately perform a survey of residents about if they want more data centers in their county. Even better, a public referendum to allow all county residents to have their voice heard. I fully expect that a vast majority simply do not want these buildings under any circumstances. Thank you. Thanks, sir. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Is there anyone else that would like to speak? Okay, sir. Come on up. Give me your name and your managerial name. Give me your name and your managerial district, please, sir. My name is Jack Tinsley. I am in the Gainesboro district. So, there's two things I want to talk about. I'll just start with the data center. I think it's an awful idea. I hear everybody say the same thing. A lot of research. I've been here and talked about it once before. The last speaker had a lot of really good points. I think a referendum would be a great idea. You could just let the people decide and kind of pull yourselves out of it. But I have two questions. But I have two questions about it. One is who owns the data center? Or who will own the data center? And where are those profits going to go? Just based off of what I understood from the kind of town, the meeting that happened at the high school, those are questions that I just didn't see any answers to. So, I really am very, very interested to know about that. And I think a lot of people are. Because it kind of shows where the incentive is coming from. The next thing I want to talk about is ICE. Specifically the contract with the juvenile detention center. But in general, ICE. I worked in emergency services for 17 years. I've worked alongside police officers. My job has always been to take care of people. And it's a pretty core part of my identity. The sorts of things that ICE officers do. They're not just doing the job. They're doing the job. And what the officers are able to do without any sort of recompense is just a blatant tarnishing of the Constitution. It's just pretty disgraceful and shameful to me. But there's a petition that's gone around. It's about 2300 people have signed it. Calling for an end to the contract in NRJDC with ICE. And we've gone to the city council about it in Winchester. We've come here. We kind of get the runaround everywhere we go. That it's this other person's decision. It's theirs. It's theirs. Nobody wants to take any responsibility for anything. Although all of these different boards and elected representatives, you all are responsible. You have power to influence these things. And this leads me to the last and I think probably overall most important point. And that is one of democracy. When constituents are coming to our elected representatives to bring our opinions, we're engaging in the system of democracy. That was created by the founders. Which I believe most people really look up to. And by not receiving those wants, desires, questions, having transparency, at least engaging with these things, it really makes us feel that democracy doesn't exist here. And at that point when democracy no longer exists, when we functionally don't have it, we have to start thinking about what are our other answers. To get democracy. So, you know, help us see that democracy is not dead. And, you know, respond to all of these other points made tonight. Thank you. Thanks, sir. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . That's been weighing heavily on me. But from another resident, for the people here tonight speaking out against ICE in our neighborhoods, you know that you're doing something very brave because you know what's at stake. Today we're here because something really bad is happening in our community. Those wondering if something like Minnesota will happen, you are absolutely right. An hour away in Hagerstown, ICE is building a holding facility. If you see the picture, the parking lots are already filled with cars. Last December, Frederick County signed a 287 agreement which grants local police the ability to enforce immigration operations. Finally, the Northwestern Regional Juvenile Detention Center based right here in Winchester has voted to renew its intergovernmental service agreement, which allows ICE to hold an immigrant child here for another five years. People keep saying that we're getting drug dealers and rapists off the streets, but all I see are mothers, children, students, and people that risk everything to come here for a better life. It doesn't help that I keep hearing how much money these detention centers make. It's almost like they're making a business out of detaining people and trafficking them. Because if we had such a problem with undocumented migrants, we would make an easier path to citizenship that didn't cost 10 years and $4,000. Because if we had such a problem with undocumented immigrants, we wouldn't be stripping families of their legal statuses such as DACA, TPS, asylum, or parole. Because if we had such a problem with undocumented immigrants, we wouldn't be bombing their cities or going to war, destroying their homes with our taxpayer dollars. Is this the future of our community? Is this what Shenandoah Valley wants to see? What does it want to become? If you have a parent, a child, a partner, a neighbor, a coworker, or anyone else in your life who is an immigrant, you know what's at stake. It's not about legality anymore, because they threw that out the window. It's about what's right for our community, because we get to decide. So we want to change that. We want to tell the council, let's take ICE out of Winchester. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. My name is Leslie Spencer. I live in the Gainesboro District. I just want to stand with my community for a moment. I can't really repeat everything that they said, but I'm so proud of them for speaking up tonight. I'd like to thank the Frederick County Planning Department and the county for hosting last night's comprehensive planning meeting on community facilities. I truly appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I appreciate the time, preparation and effort that goes into bringing residents together to discuss the future of our community facilities. I'd also like to invite the public to join us for our second community work group meeting, our volunteer led study group coming up on Monday, March 16th at 6 PM at the Hanley Library Auditorium. One of our favorite community facilities. Our meetings are much less formal, and we are very excited to have vibrant, creative, creative, open dialogue and discussions where we positively impact our community's comprehensive plan. Out at Trumpet Vine on our first meeting, we were so honored to have Vice Chair Wells. Thank you very much for coming and to say a few words. And we hope to keep up this tradition, though this is more of a work session style study group. Last time, Planner John Bishop also stood for over an hour during his presentation, taking all kinds of thoughtful questions. And we were so grateful to have him with us diving in on our first night as to what a comprehensive plan is and why it is so important that everyone in our community gets involved. So this month, we'll be focusing on community facilities, including schools, libraries, parks, emergency services, public works and the public spaces that support everyday life in Frederick County. These meetings are a great opportunity for residents to share ideas, speak freely, ask questions and find solutions. And we hope to help shape the vision for our county over the next 20 years. We even had some new community partnerships stem from our first meeting and that was very exciting. So everyone is welcome and we would love to see more members of the community join this important conversation. Next Monday, March 16th, 6 p.m. at the Hanley Library Auditorium. Thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Brian Nury. I'm a resident of the Opecan District. I'm sure you guys are really tired of hearing the numbers 287G, but we're still coordinating with it. I wanted to bring up something from the city of Harrisonburg that they have passed for the past two years. Their concern, that they've sent to state and federal representatives. And I think they had a really great idea that I think more communities should be signing on to. And considering we're the next door neighbor up, we could do the same thing. They have a number of questions that they'd like to ask these representatives. Things like what policies are in place to ensure appropriate treatment of the public by officers involved in immigration enforcement? When a parent or guardian is detained, who assumes custody of minors? How are next of kin and family members treated? How are they treated? How are they treated? What is the context of kin contacted? Who maintains stewardship of personal property in the detained? What review process exists for the interactions involving use of force? And what mechanisms exist to report conduct by federal and state law enforcement officers that's unprofessional, inhumane, and unsafe? And if there is none, we call on the Commonwealth to create a multilingual online portal for residents to report such conduct. These are the concerns that ultimately I want to be able to report to the state. And I think that's a really good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. The sheriff public safety committee, the juvenile jail board, the juvenile detention center board. We need to know that we are safe in our communities because it's not just people who look like me and you guys. It's going to be anyone in our community who could be pulled over. I have an Arabic last name. I'm on a watch list somewhere probably. I don't want to get pulled over, and I don't think anyone else does either. I know that Sheriff Mulholland runs a very good department. I know that department, that they don't abuse their position. And Sheriff Mulholland has made comments constantly the past couple of years that I do not pull people over because they fit the description. However, with the supremacy of the federal government and ICE, if they're given an order, how are they supposed to deal with it? How are they coordinating? And I also understand that if people come to my home wearing tactical vests and M4s, and if I call the sheriff's department, they're going to know that they were there. But we need to know more about how the Frederick County Sheriff's Department, the jail, the juvenile detention center, and the courts are interacting with ICE and Department of Homeland Security. Like some of the predecessors said before, a lot of these are not hardened criminals. A lot of them are just kids who got brought here, and now they're being punished for the sins of their family. So let's, I want to open, a dialogue with all the law enforcement and see what of any of these concerns they might be able to answer. Because in the end, it's all of our rights that are endangered. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anybody else want to speak? All righty. I'm going to close this part. Thank you. Board of Supervisors comments. Do we have any? Yes, sir. Supervisor Oates. I'm just going to reiterate what I said. I think we're going to have a community meeting on data centers on the northern part of the county. And I think it needs to be advertised and made clear what it is and what it is not. If we're going to allow questions from the audience, if it's there just to provide data and for them to take that with them. But there needs to be better communication on how it's being handled. And I'd like to see it take place sometime in April. Because I have had several constituents in my district ask, when is it going to happen? And they want to hear it. And I think that's going to be a good way to get to that information. I think we're going to have to look for more information. We're going to be looking at what's being said on the next meeting. I believe we've got it set to bring that up here at the next board meeting. Am I correct, Mr. Pierson? At that time, we'll have that information. Anybody else? Looking to my left. All right, folks. I've got two things. So first off, Shrander Band, thank you for coming out. Adam knows I have volunteered at several of your events. And your kids are awesome. You do a fantastic job. And I really appreciate that. Thank you for coming out. And I really appreciate you And I really appreciate you coming out and speaking that was really good. So thank you for doing that I Went to an event this morning regarding the and it was regarding the amendment that's up for Redistricting amendment that's right now in early voting and will be voted on next month and The one thing I want to point if there was two things that were said at this meeting this morning that really I thought really drove home why we need to pay attention do your homework before you decide which how you're going to vote is Look at the map how the redistricting would happen if it were to move forward and the redistricting was to change the we We in this valley up and down this valley would have five congressional representatives out of Fairfax so I've heard a lot about community tonight and Look I need you to take a look at that map and look at where we are set up now because it really is Community-oriented where it's up the valley and different places We were do well working with Shenandoah County working with Clark County working with Warren County in the city So I'm asking everybody please do your homework on this because it's very important right now How this is going to how? Impacted will be on our our area our community We could end up with representatives out of Fairfax who probably can't even find 81 much less care about our Valley so I just I think it's I'm speaking we we as board made a decision that we would do this on an individual basis So I'm speaking and my position is chairman to say please vote no on this and please do your homework That's what I'm asking it. Do your homework? I'm asking you to vote no and please do your homework. That's what I'm asking it. Do your homework? homework before you go in there and make sure you understand the repercussions with this redistricting that's supposed to be temporary. Income tax was supposed to be temporary in 1913. So please do your homework. That's what I'm asking for. Okay, folks. All right. Thank you all. Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman, no other comments on the move. We adjourn. We are adjourned. Yes. Thank you. Thank you.
