Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2026-10-07
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=367
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Real quick before we start, if you have not signed up to speak for the Gibson Resigning Public Hearing and you're here for that purpose and you want to speak, the list is right over here, and now would be the time to sign up. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So I'll be able to see you. Good evening. I'll call the October 7, 2026 meeting of the Frederick County Planning Commission to order. If you would, please stand with me for the invocation followed by the Pledge of Allegiance and one of our own, Commissioner Crane. Will they please stand? lead us in the invocation. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you that we live in the greatest country on the face of the earth and for the opportunity to live in this commonwealth and in the northern Shenandoah Valley and in our own Frederick County. You have blessed us beyond measure and we thank you for this. We thank you for this time that we can gather to make decisions. I ask that you give the commissioners wisdom and the backbone to make the right decisions and an ear to listen to the people. And we ask your blessing upon our meeting tonight. We do take pause this evening to pray for the families of those who were tortured and murdered three years ago and ask your comfort and peace upon them. We ask in your precious and holy name. Amen. Please join us for the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Thomas. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. It leads us to the adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion for adoption? So moved. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All those in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed likewise? We have an agenda that leads us to committee reports. Are there any committee reports? To my right. Mr. Kearns. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Historic Resources Advisory Board met on Friday, September 18th. There were two items on the agenda. First one was to review the Brockton property rezoning that is located at 1667 North Frederick Pike in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. That moved ahead with a recommendation for approval with comments. And the second item was to review the Brockton property rezoning that is located at 1667 North Frederick Pike in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. That moved ahead with a recommendation for approval with additional comments. And that's all. Thank you, sir. Any other committee reports to my right? Seeing none to my left, do we have any committee reports? Okay. Then that leaves us to the Board of Supervisors. And we will see. Dr. Orndorff. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Chairman and commissioners, the Board met on September the 23rd under the consent agenda. Two items for the attention of the commission. Resolution for changes in the secondary system of state highways was approved for Adams Point Phases 2 and 3 and the Oaks at Brattie Crossing. Under item 10 on that agenda also is an item of interest to the Planning Commission. Under committee business, the Finance Committee, the Planning Director requested $300,000 from the General Fund Supplemental Appropriation to establish a reserve fund balance available by request to the Conservation Easement Authority. Any spending from the reserve funds would require a separate appropriation. The plan is to be approved by the Board of Supervisors. No additional local funds are required. Solar siting funds received in 2025 are available in the County Capital Fund to fund this request. And that was approved by the Board of Supervisors. Under items from the Planning Commission for public hearing, the Board approved the Conditional Use Permit Number 04-26. For DNS investment, LLC, Mountain Falls Park, the Board approved an ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code modifications to remove data centers as a permitted and or conditional use. Code section 165603.02 in certain zoning districts and to remove other references to data centers including definitions. Code section 165-1105.05 and additional regulations for specific uses. Code section 165-705.01. And again, that was approved. Also, on optional action to be considered and a resolution providing for grandfathering of certain landowners. Land use applications submitted prior to zoning amendments adopted on September 23, 2007. 20, 2026 rather. And those applications have until October 28th. And then ordinance amendment to Frederick County Code modifications to remove technology manufacturing zoning districts. And other references to the TM zoning district from the ordinance actions proposed postponed until November the 12th. Mr. Chairman, that concludes my report. Thank you very much, sir. That completes our committee reports and leads us to item six, which is citizen comments. If anybody would like to address the planning commission on a topic that is not on our agenda tonight for public hearing, this would be the time to do so. As you come to the podium, state your name. Measure your name. And if you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to the district and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anybody like to address the planning commission? Seeing no one, I will close the citizen comments and we will move on to our public hearings. Item 7A, rezoning 09-26, YDC Shawnee Drive property, Youth Development Center. Good evening, Mr. Bittner. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Eric Bittner, Planner 2. This is a request by Youth Development Center, Inc. to rezone 3.12 acres from M2, General Industrial, to B2, General Business, located at 129 Shawnee Drive, Winchester, in the Bat Creek Magisterial District. Previous approval on this property was Site Plan 20-91, which is approved for several office buildings. This is the location of the property in relation to the bounds of the City of Winchester and Frederick County. It's located just to the southern border of Winchester. This is the property located outlined in purple. It's located at 129 Shawnee Drive. There are several other addresses on the property for each of the individual buildings here. It's occupied by a number of nonprofit groups. These are approved for office buildings. These were approved back in 1990. Since then, the use of office has been removed from the M2 business district, so these properties are considered nonconformity. The property is located against the City of Winchester here to the south. This is the old Youth Development Center. To the right of the property is B2, General Business District. It's across from M2, General Industrial, which is Tracks. This is a long-range land use map of the property, identifying it for business. This is within the Kernstown land use map. This is in the Kernstown industrial area. It calls for the properties to be developed for commercial industrial purposes, specifically to support areas that are identified as interest for the Economic Development Authority. There are proffers that have been made. These are the properties that we proposed with this rezoning. Proffer 1 is land use restrictions. This would remove a number of uses that would otherwise not be appropriate for the site. These would include gas stations, restaurants, and also self-storage facilities. The full list is in the proffer statement. Proffer 2.1 is a site access proffer, which would limit access to the existing entrances, making sure that no new entrances would be opened up on Shawnee Drive. Proffer 3.1 is a cash proffer of 10 cents per square foot of new construction for fire and rescue services. I do want to note that at this point there is no proposed additional construction on the property, but this would cover any future development of the property. Proffer 4.1 is exclusion of public property from proffers. This is for any future right-of-way dedication that would have the proffers not be applied to the property. Proffer 5.1 is a severability clause. It just keeps the proffers in force in the event that any of the proffers are removed. The positives of the rezoning is that the proposed rezoning is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan. It advances the Kernstown area plan. It allows for additional commercial opportunity. It would also resolve an existing nonconformity as it would move the use into a zoning district that it is permitted in. Minor concern is that while the proposed proffers remove uses that would not otherwise be compatible with the industrial areas, the remaining uses are not all targeted industries by the Economic Development Authority. This item is presented to you all for public hearing. Staff are seeking a recommendation following that from the Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors on the proposed rezoning. That is scheduled for November 12th of 2026. At this point, staff and the applicant are available for any questions. Any questions to my left for Mr. Bittner? Any questions to my right for Mr. Bittner? Yes, sir, Mr. Kernst. Thank you. I just have one really quick question. This looks like an interesting plot because there's an inter-parcel driveway between that and I think the old YDC building maybe. Yes, sir. So, which also goes across San Francisco. Yes, sir. And then the city-county lines. Does this impact that inter-parcel driveway road at all? Not the inter-parcel connection, no, sir. Okay. Okay. That's all. Any other questions to my right? Mr. Bittner, does this, I believe the Boy Scout has an office in one of the buildings. Is that correct? Yes, sir. It's actually the primary office located. The primary building located here is the scout office. With this change in zoning, would they be, could this be subdivided where they could have their own building? Or is it too close? Is there a way for it to be required? The property could be subdivided. Subdividing off this particular structure from the others would be not feasible just because of how close those structures are to each other. I would likely run into some setback problems. But theoretically, yes, they were to resolve that in some way by removing a building or so. Okay. One last question. You mentioned this would go to the board in November? Yes, sir. Okay. Our sheet says October 28th. So I just want to make sure. Yes. The applicant asked, would that be moved to a later date just due to the amount of items that were on? Okay. Very good. Yeah. He doesn't like to stay out late at night. Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Sowers, do you care to add anything, sir? Because we don't want to keep you out late, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission, Patrick Sowers here on behalf of the YDC. Really, the only thing I wanted to just reiterate was the property functions more like a B2 property currently. M2 heavy industrial for a 3.12-acre property really does make a lot of sense for this site. So really, we're not proposing new uses as much as kind of modifying zoning to accommodate what's already there. But with that, happy to answer any questions. Commission may have. Any questions for Mr. Sowers? To my left? To my right? Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak to this rezoning request, this would be the time to do so. Please come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and leave your comments to three minutes or less. Would anybody like to speak? And we have nobody signed up, Mr. Chairman. Seeing nobody, I will close the public hearing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is Mr. Sowers. I would like to speak to this rezoning request and provide my comments on the proposal's resolution. Okay. Any discussion? Want commissioners? This is Backcrete. I move for approval of rezoning 0926 for the Youth Development Center. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, Dr. LaMonna, can you please begin our voting, sir? A yes vote means you're in agreement with the recommendation for approval. LaMonna, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. votes yes. Brumbach yes. McKay yes. Motorf yes. Sneddon yes. Markert yes. Thomas yes. Kozo yes. Kerns yes. DeHaven yes. Crane yes. Whitaker yes. Chairvice yes. Motion carries and this will go to the board November. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Towers. Takes us to item 7b comprehensive plan policy amendment electric infrastructure policy. Mr. Klein. Good evening sir. Here with Mr. Chairman let me get to the slides. Good evening Tyler Klein senior planner. This is your electrical infrastructure plan amendment public hearing. This is a request that was initiated by the board of supervisors on August the 12th to amend the county's adopted comprehensive plan specifically chapter 6 your public facilities chapter to include policy and maps for the siting design and visual appearance of overhead transmission line substations and distribution facilities in the county. As many of you are aware the current comprehensive plan does not include any specific policies for electrical infrastructure including overhead transmission lines and substations. There are significant growing regional demand for electrical infrastructure transmission to support economic development energy reliability and emerging high demand uses. Much of this demand originates outside of Frederick County and may provide indirect or limited direct community or financial benefits to Frederick County. Before electrical infrastructure can be constructed or property can be acquired for its development these projects must attain a certificate of public convenience in necessity from the state corporation commission or SCC and in that process they need to evaluate alternative routes and minimize impacts to the community. One of the things that emerged out of the community engagement with that we did on this was what role does Frederick County play. In setting policy or citing or where these lines may go the county's role is to establish planning priorities regarding electrical infrastructure and to communicate those priorities through the comprehensive plan and to participate in the state review process that's conducted for these facilities. The key question that we ask ourselves is how can the county accommodate infrastructure that may be important to regional reliability and economic development while protecting the characteristics, resources, and communities that make the county a desirable place to live, work, farm, and invest. Virginia law specifically recognizes the role for the local comprehensive plan in identifying corridors and routes for electric transmission lines of 150 kilovolts or greater and provides for the SEC to consider an affected locality's adopted comprehensive plan when requested. For the public that's here this evening and for the Planning Commission, it's important to note that the policies contained in this amendment and in your comprehensive plan are not law. They're not codified in a manner that gives us a yes or no vote on these. Rather, they're a policy that the board can use to communicate priorities to the SEC that can support decision making. Okay. So, this amendment that we have drafted provides a clear framework for the county's priorities establishing where and how electrical infrastructure should be planned while considering the community, residences, agricultural, environmental, scenic, and cultural resources. The framework is intended, again, to guide the county's participation in future projects while allowing individual proposals to be evaluated based on their location, scale, purpose, and potential impacts. Here are the key policies summarized that are in our proposal. The first priority is to use existing corridors first. In the document, we've established clear guidance for the siting of transmission infrastructure, emphasizing co-location on existing facilities, prioritizing the use of existing utility corridors, rail corridors, and road rights away where feasible. We also encourage the use of underground utilities, particularly in locations where there is value in maintaining visual appeal, avoiding environmental resources, residences, public facilities, and where we want to avoid the impact of overhead power lines. We also want to protect residences in sensitive areas. We want to avoid and minimize impacts to residential areas, agricultural operations, conservation easements, agricultural and forestal districts, sensitive natural areas, riparian areas, other important natural and cultural resources to the greatest extent practicable. Within the policy, we've also provided a consistent evaluation framework on how projects will be evaluated, what siting criteria should be included, and how to include considerations of community character, quality of life, environmental impacts, land use compatibility, and long-term infrastructure needs. We want to ensure consistency with the county's broader growth management, rural and land preservation strategies, including efforts to direct development towards appropriate areas while protecting our rural and agricultural lands. Thank you. Any other questions? conservation easements, transfer of development rights or TDR properties, Civil War battlefields, and other preserved lands such as the National Forest. The second map has the same infrastructure corridors identified but identifies public facilities. This includes public schools, county-owned facilities, landfills, convenience sites, private schools, and other facilities such as fire and rescue that we want to avoid impacts to with electrical infrastructure siting. No comprehensive plan effort is complete without extensive community engagement. We made it a priority early on in this process to engage the community as often as we could in that time frame. Again, the board directed us to do this in August and since then we have posted the policy to the county's information hub portal. There is a specific transmission line piece that we are working on right now that is going to be used to provide information on the local level. We have a portal that has a list of information on that portal that has all the relevant information not only about our draft policy but the county's role in the process how the community can engage with the SEC in the hearings and how they can leave comments and things of that nature. We also posted the policy to our current planning applications page which is on the planning portal and we've done a number of social media posts with the assistance of our new communication director. In addition to putting the information out there online, we did hold an information open house on Wednesday September 30th. We have a really great team of staff. We had about 25 attendees and we are greatly appreciative of the planning commissioners who chose to attend that event, board members who attended and of course the public who was there and provided some outstanding feedback and try to understand what the policy was about and give us additional feedback so we can improve that. We have received quite a bit of feedback so far. In that feedback we have used that to make revisions to the draft for those of you who are on the comprehensive plans and programs committee you all saw a draft that draft has been changed based on the significant community feedback we've received in the past. We have some received we have further clarified certain requirements to ensure that all electrical improvements are made within existing right-of-ways not to expand the right-of-ways let them get wider anything like that we've established a hierarchy of what the county values and wants to protect most where we have prioritized residences and dwellings we've expanded the siting criteria when adjoining sensitive areas that includes setting criteria for where it adjoins community facilities residential areas agricultural operations conservation properties riparian areas natural resources and the like we've expanded the policies around around underground utilities and we have defined terms when helpful to make sure that we all are on the same page for what we mean when we say practicable right if the we want the decisions be made to be have practicable solutions we've defined what practical bull means as far as the policy goes so again we appreciate the public's feedback we are still taking public feedback obviously tonight is a public hearing we have a display outside with an opportunity to write comments we're going to take any feedback we get from the Planning Commission and feedback we have received since the information open house and we're going to be making additional minor edits to the policy as it goes forward to the Board of Supervisors so the work is not yet done your comprehensive plans and programs committee met on September the 14th we had a great discussion that evening and we appreciate them providing a recommendation of approval the site's item is on your agenda this evening as a public hearing item and following your public hearing we would be seeking a recommendation and any comments from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors and the Board of Supervisors public hearing date has been listed as October 28th but we are listening it currently is to be determined based on some other things that we have going on and some direction for the Board of Supervisors so for those in the public they're looking at the board calendar please stay tuned to the meeting portal and the planning current applications page we will update that date as soon as we have a firm date so that is all I have for you this evening mr. chairman and I'm happy to answer any questions before we begin the public hearing any questions to my right from mr. Klein yes sir great yeah mr. Klein I just want to clarify that our first course of action is litigation with Clark and Winchester is that correct so that is certainly on the table but certainly having comprehensive land policy that they can point the board of supervisors can point to and say these are our criteria would be the first step any other questions to my right mr. Kern thank you Mr. Marshall and just to be clear timeline wise would this would impact the value link project this would get true soon enough that that would we're hearing that they're going to be filing at the tail end of this year so having the policy in place before the tail end of this year will give the board the opportunity to when they draft their letter of objection they can include the comprehensive plan policy or the public when they're writing their letters of objection can also cite our comprehensive plan policy but that has to be by the end of the year we're going to have a new item that we're going to be doing in the next two or three or four years. hearing that they would be filing towards the end of the year, and then the hearings would be into the new year. Yes. Perfect. Thank you. This policy is a guide and a tool to communicate to the SEC, so you couldn't, you know, say put a CUP on this process, right? Or could you? Certainly could add comprehensive policy that would have implementation steps. We already require CUPs for certain substations, and we have, we recently did a substation amendment that you all will recall was that the tail came after the next error decision, but we can certainly revisit that zoning ordinance policy. If we wanted to include something like that, we certainly could put that requirement in the policy. I think you all just making it as part of your actions, even saying incorporate, you know, citizen comments or whatever other steps, we'll include that to the board. Yes. Okay. And the maps are showing where they shouldn't go, not giving any direction on. The maps show the existing corridors today and the siting policy state. We want them in the existing quarters. We want them in the existing quarters. We want them in the existing quarters. We want them in the existing quarters. We want them in the existing quarters. We want them in the existing quarters. So those are the county's preferred quarters. We are not identifying new corridors at this time, other outside of road right away and existing infrastructure. Thank you. You know, the question is to my right, to my left. Any questions? Yes, sir. I like the document. As far as in kind of playing off of Liz's question about the CUPs, is there a way, I think substations are the biggest concern for a lot of people, given that, you know, and I think that's the only thing we can really put some, you know, site mitigations around. Is there any way we can add some things to zoning ordinances for that? We certainly can. We recently did just adopt our zoning ordinance. I think we can revisit what's currently there and decide if with some of the new siting criteria, if it doesn't mesh, we can make a recommendation as part of the strategies that we further amend the zoning ordinance that would give the board an actionable step. They adopt the policy and they can direct us at that point to go back and revisit the zoning ordinance. It's certainly a good, a good, process map. Any other questions to my left? Yes, sir. One of the corridors is shown is that squiggly railroad right away heading out towards Gore. Yep. Have you all considered or put anything in there about the possibility of that being too squiggly to end up with a significant amount of new right of way taken because an electric company isn't going to follow the railroad with all its bends and twists and turns. Yeah, I think that was a discussion we had at the CPPC. I think what we'll do if you all nod your heads or give us that direction is we'll take that rail spur that goes west of 37 out along Route 50. We can take that off the map and not identify it as a corridor of right of way. The other railroad lines in the county generally are more linear. They have straighter kind of shots and they don't have what some of the likely challenges would be in acquiring right of way or working with the railroads on that piece. So we can just take that piece off the map. That's your direction. We're happy to make that change. We received that feedback at the information open house. We got it at the CPPC. So I think the planning commission in their action wants to say remove that. We'll take that off when we take it to the board. I'd prefer that. Thank you. Thank you. That's good feedback. Any other comments, questions? Sorry, last one. What's the buffer requirements around? There's no, there's not a codified buffer requirement, but we do require that they provide buffer and landscaping to mitigate the impact, particularly where it adjoins residential schools, other structures. So there is some siting guidance about that. And then certainly our preference would be that if they're going near those kind of sensitive features or the schools or residences, they would underground the utilities so they create as extent possible. I think that's the preferred approach. We recognize that there's a cost with that. And then there's underground challenges with our car topography and other environmental features. So it doesn't always make the most sense. But we certainly support that when they need to do new right-of-way, we'd be undergrounding it when it goes past those kind of key features or a battlefield or something like that. Mr. Klein, we've got some recommendations from Ms. Erin Fox, which seem very, very good. I hope we're able to somehow. incorporate what she suggested as far as CUPs on substations and then the whole co-locate as a first consideration, not an option. But it made me think if this our comprehensive plan is a policy document, it doesn't have any legal teeth. So we've got NextEra coming across the West Virginia line towards Gore with a new line now, and it's not all in the existing right-of-way. Where does the policy change leave us with that kind of project where they're, for whatever reason, they just can't get in the existing right-of-way? And I don't know what the reasons are. If under the policy they can't use existing right-of-way, then they have to consider undergrounding or whatever route they choose has to meet some of the other siting criteria. So there's quite a bit of it, and it's very expansive based on a lot of the feedback we receive. So they'll have to kind of weave through what they can do. And again, it's a policy document, so ultimately the state has the approval of those lines, but our policy will make clear where they do or do not meet the policy. Do we have the legal means to force them to abide by our policy? We do not have the legal means, but it is one tool in our toolbox to provide the policy and to make the objection to the State Corporation Commission. So do we need to do more with the zoning ordinance than what's been discussed here so far? I certainly think we can go further with the zoning ordinance as far as... the substation piece goes, because we do control the siting of substations under our listed uses. The power lines or regional power transmission is treated differently. It's handled by the state, so we provide a policy framework, but we don't have a final say in the approval or denial of those facilities. One last comment. I agree with Commissioner Markert that line out to Gore is crooked as a snake, and there's no reason to try to... run a power line out there along that railroad. I mean, what we're trying to do here is eliminate new corridors, new utility corridors that just devastate swaths of land across the county, so I see no reason to include that one. It certainly requires refinement. When we reached out to our neighboring localities that are tackling similar issues, a lot of them are using the same kind of priorities right away, railroad right away. I think we need to be sensitive to the nature of particular rights away in Frederick County, so it's feedback well taken. We will remove that on subsequent versions of this. Mr. Thomas. When the lines come through and they can't fit in the existing right of way, who controls whether they're allowed to condemn properties if they can't purchase it amicably? Is it the SEC? Is it the county? Is it just the judicial system? Where does it go? I might need to defer to Mr. Fox on this issue, because he's much more involved in the kind of... legal side of it, so I'll defer to Mr. Fox. With respect to private property, it's totally controlled by the utility company, which has its own right of eminent domain and associated rules and procedures under state code. If it's a matter of public property, then it's a little different. Public property, I mean publicly owned property, property owned by another political subdivision of the Commonwealth, so not private property that may be under some restrictions, easements. For private property, it's simply the condemning authority goes through the process. The SEC simply certifies the route that they believe is most appropriate. And since it's controlled by the transmission line folks, who determines the equitable price for the condemnations? It would be determined judicially, but it would come поgate . It would come under Vegas? if it can't be determined, if the property can't be negotiated for purchase by the utility company. By a jury, ultimately by a jury if it goes through that full process. Thank you. Mr. Kearns. I just thought of, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just thought of one other question. Just looking at the rail line, is there a reason that you guys included rail lines and not like a divided highway, like 522 or 50? All the roads are noted as a potential siting location because they are existing publicly owned right of way. They're just not highlighted on the map because there's too many roads to do that for. The railroads are highlighted because they're hard to discern compared to roadways. That's why they were highlighted in that manner. But if you read the policy, it's existing utility easements, road rights of way, all levels. So that would be 522, 57. And the like, then railroad right of ways. But the railroads, again, vary greatly because some of them run like north to south, like the CSX line runs north to south, basically paralleling 11. It's fairly straight. The line that Mr. Stowe was mentioning is maybe Winchester and Western or another entity, and it does not have that kind of linear path. So that's why it's shown that way. But it's really the way the map is displayed because if we highlighted every road, we'd lose all the other discerning elements of the map. I was just looking at it because. That one section of the rail does kind of connect 50 and 522. So if it were to come down across, that's all. It was connecting those two roadways. So if the roadways are in play, then that section of rail does connect those two. If it were to go further south, that's all. Okay. Any other comments, questions? Thank you very much, sir. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak to this item, this comprehensive plan policy amendment, this would be the time to do so. Please come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Mr. Chairman, your first sign-up is Janice Dixon from the Stonewall District. Ms. Dixon? Good evening. Hi. My name's Janice. I'm Janice Dixon. I'm with the Stonewall District. And I'm here to oppose the Marl Valley Link transmission line. They have it already mapped on my property, and I did not grant them permission to go. I have no right of way or access for it. My property, it's gated and locked, and I have already issued no trespassing notices to the electric companies, and associates with the electric companies. And they have, in turn, trespassed. They surveyed and left flags and ribbons and painted the ground when I wasn't home one day. So then months later, the company came, and I caught the drill outside wanting to access the property again. I told them no trespassing. He, in turn, contacted my 89-year-old neighbor. And she allowed them to proceed in our fields. And I called to ask if she knew that they were over there, and she didn't understand the purpose of the trespassing. But it was too late then. They left holes all in our property and disrupted and interfered with the fields. And my property and all the properties in the neighborhood, they got wells and septic systems that, uh, they were in the middle of the neighborhood. And they were in the middle of the neighborhood. Basically, we're concerned with this, um, transmission lines. The land consists of wetlands and woods and active pastures that the cows and, uh, wildlife eat on. We also have, um, in the backyard, we have the kids and the dogs. And, um, our neighborhoods, they, the wells in the Clearbrook area, they've already ended up with the quarry. So, um, we're concerned with this. A lot of the neighbors, uh, are, have no water in their wells because the quarry's blasting. So, additionally, I have, uh, serious concerns regarding the health and safety risk associated with the transmission lines, uh, including the noise pollution, the EMF, the related health issues, as well as the potential fire risk and negative impacts on the groundwater. The well, the electric bill, the property taxes, the insurance. And all over, over, over all the property values. So, this needs an environmental assessment, but BJM believes they can bully and, and think it's okay that they make their way with no care to anybody or anything that gets in their way. And Next Air Energy, we don't want them in the neighborhood because they have misleading statements and all the questions we have for them, they have no answers. And, uh, we don't want Next Air Energy. We want to make sure that they have their energy in the neighborhood because they've, uh, been pled guilty for all kinds of violations of environmental and health abuse, um, excuse me, environmental abuse. So, um, basically, um, I would ask the, uh, uh, Frederick County Planning Commission that the, to please, uh, oppose this and, um, know that all the involved properties should be drafted and should be changed. It's not okay to allow the property owners to suffer. It's not okay to allow the property owners to suffer. For the trillion dollar, uh, data centers. And thank you for your, thank you. Thank you. Next we have Erin Fox from Back Creek. Good evening. Hi. So, Erin Fox, Back Creek District. Thank you for your consideration of this amendment. I know that I always say that, but I sincerely mean it. I love this amendment. It was a great idea. It's very well written. So, many thanks to the planning staff for that. Uh, I'll get right to it. I would like the strong protections here to be even stronger. Uh, first on page 62 under the community benefits heading. And actually, I passed out the text to you all. Um, there's a bulleted list of purposes for this policy. I'd like to suggest adding another purpose that makes a case for why we should require conditional use permits for all substations. So, can we add something like, and I'm not a planner, but the purpose is to create guidelines that, you know, that are not going to be in the policy. Um, and I'm not a planner. Um, and I'm not a planner. Um, and I'm not a planner. Um, and I'm not a planner. Um, and I'm not a planner. Um, and I'm not a planner. Um, and I'm not a planner. Um, and I'm not a planner. and approved transmission, utility, railroad, and road rights of way were ever practicable before any new corridor or expansion is considered. I think our first choice here, because this power isn't for us, is that they take no new land at all, even through expansion and existing corridors. Anything beyond existing easements should be recognized as a compromise. And last, and this will seem nitpicky, but can we add the word native in front of the word pollinator whenever it's used? It's a small thing to ask that pollinator habitats be made up of native plants, but it has big and lasting impacts for two main reasons. One, native plants survive and proliferate better, especially through difficult conditions and the less desirable soils, so there's a better chance that what's planted will actually last for years to come. And two, native plants ensure better survival for our native pollinators because they've adapted together. People usually think of honeybees when they think of pollinators, but the variety of native pollinators that we have are definitely unsung heroes. Native plants are familiar to our pollinators, which means, or excuse me, which matters because most pollinators are highly specialized. They're not just feeding on, feeding and laying their eggs just on specific species of plants. Pollinators also have specific nutritional needs like everyone else, and providing them the species they've adapted with allows them to meet these requirements and thrive rather than to develop deficiencies from imbalanced nutrition. This isn't just true for pollinators, but for the other native wildlife that have adapted to use these plants for food and shelter as well. So another huge thanks to planning for writing this protective amendment. I found it to be very precise, thoughtful, and thorough. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have David Dixon of Stonewall District followed by Donald Matlock. David Dixon, Stonewall District. Basically everything Janiece Dixon said is exactly on point. I was witness with her when they were trespassing and never even attempted to reach out to us. And also I wanted to add, that I'm here to oppose Morrill and Valley Link. Some of our local leaders have the mindset that just because Morrill that runs through, just because Morrill that runs through my backyard can be following the present easement, that is okay for it to be ran. Well in my case it is not. I have a three-year-old daughter that I need to think about. That is my world. And going from 138 kW to 500, it would have to be buried. As for Valley Link, it is totally out of the question. For it to run in my front yard through the center of my farm, with them even trying to run it over my family cemetery, there is so many issues with this just being one. I cannot and will not allow Valley Link. Frederick and Clark counties have to always work together and Frederick always match the amount put up, that Clark puts up for the legal battle ahead. That's all I got. Thank you, sir. Mr. Donald Matlock, Gainsborough District, followed by Kirk Krieger. Good evening, sir. Good evening. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and members of the Commission. I'm Donnie Matlock from Gainsborough District. I'm here on behalf of the Babs Mountain Coalition of Neighbors. And I'm here to support the Electric Transmission Infrastructure Amendment to the Comprehensive Plan. First, I want to thank all of you for making this a priority. But I also want to make sure that I'm giving special thanks and attribution to John Bishop and the planning staff. We really very much appreciate it. Since this has come up in August, the planning staff have worked very hard to put this amendment together. And we very much appreciate it. The plan gives residents a clear policy of the plan. The plan gives residents a clear policy of the plan. The plan gives residents a clear policy of the plan. It also gives residents a clear public statement of where the major electric infrastructure belongs, and more importantly, where it doesn't. It also puts our farms and neighborhoods on the record before the final routes are drawn and before Valley Link goes to the SEC. This further maximizes the county's influence in the SEC's decision making. We very much support this, and we very much support the amendment. The amendment is the right step, and we are very grateful for us to keep up the momentum. Thank you again. Thank you, sir. Your last speaker that signed up, Mr. Chairman, Kurt Krieger from Bat Creek. Good evening, Mr. Krieger. Good evening, Commissioners. Chair Stowe, Kurt Krieger, Bat Creek Magisterial District. I spent a little bit of my career as an energy policy planner for the Washington State Association of Counties, worked statewide, funded by the Bonneville Power Administration. So I spent a few years immersed in power policy, northwest power policy. And I think this is a good start. I'm not normally a big fan of comprehensive planning on the installment plan. This is obviously out of sequence with the other chapters. I do urge you to reconsider this language once the other portions of the plan are taken together. But I see the wisdom of having this in place. Mr. Krieger, I think you may have tapped your mic there and turned it off. I may have. I have a note here. Oh, there we go. Sorry about that. Can you hear me now? Yes. Very good. So I just urge you to reconsider this policy in light of the other residential, manufacturing, commercial policies when they are in place. Because there may be some need to synchronize them. The only real concern I have is on page 63, the second goal. New transmission corridors, substations, and related facilities should be located in areas planned for commercial and industrial use. The term related facilities is correct. The term related facilities is really vague. And it can be perhaps interpreted more broadly than you would like. For example, in the M1 zone, try not to trigger that again, the matrix of allowable uses in M1 allows power generating facilities. So theoretically, you could have a natural gas peaking plant as a related facility feeding a substation or a transmission line, even if it was compliant with your alignment. I'm not sure that you anticipate that or that that's what you want to achieve here. So I urge you to put some definition around what related facilities are. Perhaps there's a megawatt maximum. Perhaps there's an impact assessment that could be done on that. What I'm getting at is battery electric storage systems have been discussed by you in study session. They are currently not allowed in Frederick County. And I wouldn't like to see them back doors. I don't think we have a back door as a related facility with respect to this policy. So please take that into consideration. I'll put this in writing for your staff as well. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is he on the list? No, that's the end of your list, sir. Would anybody else like to speak to this item? Seeing none, I'll close the public hearing. Planning Commissioners, it will be your pleasure. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Jahaven. Yes. I'd like to make a motion that we move this forward to the Board with a recommendation for approval. I think the planners have done a good job putting us together a tool that can help us address this big challenge we have coming to our community. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? To my right? Any discussion? To my left? Yes, sir. Mr. Marker. Excuse me. Could we include in that the discussion, the conclusion that we talked about with the railroad removal of that from the plan? Yeah, we need to make some changes here. The short answer is yes. Mr. Whitaker, did you have a comment, sir? Yes. I think we got some good ideas here that we need to incorporate into this. So how about we put a pause on this? And sort of rework it and come back with this? I think what we're trying to do is get this in place before the filing of the ValleyLink power line with the SEC at the end of the year. That's the schedule we're trying to work on. And we don't have time to table it and rework it? What would you like to rework, sir? Well, I'd like to add in about the railroad, as Mr. Marker talked about. And also, we had some good ideas as far as adding more language to it and incorporating more ideas into it that we heard tonight. Is there any way we can do that? Mr. Fine? I'll let you answer that, sir. We certainly can take all those comments. We intend to make additional changes because we got some public comment between the CPPC and the state. Okay. We've gotten some additional feedback. Ms. Fox was kind enough to send us hers in writing. Mr. Krieger also had some good comments. Mr. Matlock has some comments already as well. So I think the action to send, you know, make the motion was made. Mr. Marker had the specific change but incorporated other comments. I think that's broad enough. We'll go through the recording again. We'll go through all those written comments. We'll make those changes in a red line version. We'll take that to the board so they can see what has changed from the previous one. And then we'll go through the recording again. We'll go through the comments. We'll make the motion changed from the item that was advertised to the PC. And it will be very easy for the public again to follow that. And like I said earlier in my presentation, we're still looking for public feedback. If there's additional feedback that members of the public would like to give us, please do so in writing via e-mail or using the cards that are outside. And we'll take all that feedback before we go to the board. Again, we are planning to go to the board at the end of the month. We're not going to do that. We're going to have a little bit more time on this. So we'll continue to refine the draft. It will be available on the website. We'll put it out there on social media. It will continue to circulate for public comment between now and the end of the month. So I think the motion with Mr. Markert's amendments would be certainly enough to direct us to go forward with comments. So the comments that have been made here tonight... Plus any other comments received. Plus any other can be incorporated. Do you need a motion? Do you need a specific... Do you need an amended motion that includes all those comments? I think it would be clean if Mr. DeHaven is open to amending his motion to include approval with comments. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Thomas. Before we do that, you know, I think most of the comments tonight need to be incorporated. And I agree that, you know, they're all good and we should have them in here. But I'm not sure we want to give a carte blanche to incorporate everything we get from the public without the planning commission seeing it. So I would... I think my suggestion would be that we consider taking what we have with Ms. Fox's suggestions. Certainly the railroad elimination. And if Commissioner Vaughn has a specific one he wants to include, include those. But I hate to give us a carte blanche that any other public comments we're going to go ahead and put in without planning commissioners seeing it. Mr. Chairman, if I may, I'm going to sort of tack on to what Mr. Thomas has said here. Because obviously we have gotten many good comments and have throughout the process. We've been working them in throughout. But it would definitely be useful and helpful to staff as a part of your motion. You were able to highlight the particular ones that you'd like to see us include. That does not... For those in the public, to be clear, that does not mean your comments are being cast... They're hitting the cutting room floor today. They will still be part of the listing that goes forward to the Board of Supervisors for their consideration for inclusion as well. But like Mr. Thomas says, it's a little complicated to automatically take everything that we have. But I think that's a good point. We're going to take everything that is said with carte blanche without some specific call out by our decision makers. Okay. Thank you, sir. Okay. With that said, Mr. DeHaven, do you care to amend your motion? Let me give this a shot and see where we go. Okay, sir. And we'll look for help from Mr. Bishop and staff if we need that. So I would make the motion that we move this forward to the Board with approval. Okay, sir. With approval for approval, recommendation for approval to include removal of the railroad spur, inclusion of language that would regulate substations through a CUP process, and additional limits that focus on restricting expansion of the existing corridors. Okay. There's a revised motion. Is there a second? Second. Second. There's a second. Is there any further discussion? Seeing none, Mr. Whitaker, would you like to start the voting for us, sir? Yes vote means you're in agreement with this motion to move this forward as presented with these amendments. I'm happy to say yes. Crane, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kern, yes. Cozell, yes. Thomas, yes. Margaret, yes. Sneddon, yes. Lodbrok, yes. McKay, yes. Brumbach, yes. Lumani, yes. Chairvich, yes. McClendon, yes. So the motion carries. So this will go to the board in the future. Mr. Chairman, with your forbearance, and I know I'm out of order here, but I would like to, particularly based on some of the citizens' comments, make sure I note that Mr. Klein has really done the human's task here, both in terms of the volume and the timeline to bring this forward. I always appreciate being recognized for the efforts of my staff, but I want to make sure that that commendation language, and I want to make sure that the staff understands where it belongs, and that's with Mr. Tyler. Thank you. Mr. Klein, it is his. Certainly a team effort. We'll move on if you're ready, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. That takes us to Item 7Z, rezoning 08-26 for the Gibson property. This is what all these people are here for. They want to hear what you have to say. I like to believe that they're here for electrical infrastructure, but I'm guessing I'm wrong. This is your rezoning for Gibson property, rezoning 08-26. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. But for the public that is here this evening, this is a rezoning to consider breaking the zoning on 344 acres from RA Rural Areas to M-1 Light Industrial. These properties are located in and around Fairfax Pike in the Shawnee Magisterial District. And we would note that we received a revised proffer statement late today that was emailed electronically to all the planning commission members. that those proffers are also included on your dais for your consideration this evening. Our presentation is up to date. We will cover those changes, all of the changes that have been made since September 16th, but we will be sure to highlight changes that came today that were not included with your public hearing packet. So keep in mind what is in the public hearing packet is slightly amended. Under the Code of Virginia, applicants can offer amendments to their proffers up until the Board of Supervisors action. So there's nothing precluding you all from holding a public hearing this evening, but staff will highlight those changes that have been made so you all have full consideration and also the public that is here that is going to make comment. This is your countywide locator map showing the general extent location of the subject properties. They are located wholly within the Shawnee Magisterial District, which is there in purple. But staff would know that they do directly adjoin the Opec and Magisterial District. This is one of those rare instances where the project really impacts. Two Magisterial Districts. This is your zoning and location map showing the subject parcels outlined in purple. You have two parcels that comprise this assemblage of 244 acres. They are located immediately north of Fairfax Pike or Route 277 and directly west of Route 522 for Royal Pike. They also adjoin Clark County. To the southwest of the subject property is the Madison development. This Planning Commission will remember that as a rezoning to the R4, a planned recreational community district that you all, it was approved by the board earlier this year that includes a mix of medical office, general commercial, and residential. It also directly adjoins the Lake Frederick community, which is an R5 planned recreational residential community, which is there to the south in Brown. The eastern subject property, which adjoins 522 and 277, also adjoins Sandy's Mobile Home Park and the Shenandoah Flea Market. So that's kind of your general location. I think we're all. I think we're all accustomed to where this assemblage is. More importantly for the consideration of the Planning Commission, this is your adopted long-range land use plan. The subject properties are contained in the southern Frederick area plan. They are identified in an area of the county which is known as the Route 277 Triangles of Economy. That is that significant area of light blue on your screen that is planned future industrial. The two subject properties also include along the 277 frontage a small area of mixed use industrial, which is the long range land use plan. The land use plan is a separate residential office that is a distinctive planned land use separate from industrial. South of 277 and adjoining the subject properties again is what we call the Lake Frederick urban development area for the purposes of our comprehensive plan. That is a significant area of urban center and mixed use office commercial, which is shown on the Madison properties and the properties on the other side of Lake Frederick. Obviously, Lake Frederick is planned to be primarily a residential area. Again, staff wants to highlight that the long-range land use plan is where we evaluate the area of the Lake Frederick. The plan is a plan that is designed to evaluate the policies and the planned land use versus the rezoning. Also, bisecting the subject properties is a planned collector road between 277 and 522. And in bright green on the map is a planned trails along 522 and 277. So, the future long-range land use plan sets the stage for the analysis that staff and the applicant have conducted in consideration of this rezoning. Again, you all held a work session on September 16th with the applicant. And staff at that work session over a two-hour period, we discussed a number of key issues. Those were summarized at the end of the work session by the chairman. The primary issues that were identified at that time and the applicant was asked to work on pertains to transportation impacts, proposed transportation mitigation, and the timing of those transportation improvements. They were asked to address the overhead utilities waiver contained in their proffers. They were asked to address prohibited and allowed uses. The use mix and the compatibility of the uses along 277 with the residential uses south, which is primarily Lake Frederick, but in the future would include the Madison development. And they were also asked to address building design, facade materials, building heights, and buffers and screening. I can report in the version that was included with your staff report that the applicant did make significant changes to their proffer statement. And they've made further changes as of today, which we'll cover in the forthcoming slides. So again, the proffer statement was revised this afternoon, October 7th, 2026. Proffer one pertains to site development. It includes conformance with the generalized development plan, which was included with the proffer statement. They have included primary building materials specified. And since your planning commission meeting on the 16th, they have limited the use of EFIS, which is a sprayed insulation type treatment. And sides of the buildings facing 522. And 277 would include a minimum of three colors and an architectural feature. They've also proffered to provide a green space buffer along Route 277 and Route 522 that would include an eight foot tall earthen berm. They would include landscape plantings that would be at a size that exceeds the current zoning ordinance requirement. And they've agreed to the use of at least one Virginia native species in the deciduous evergreen and shrubs as part of the landscape buffer. They have clarified the proffer for the overpass. They now have two properties alongside of the 80, and there's no A now the parking site, and that will be another thing will just not be included in the plan again. At this point. They have first quantified that all graph In addition to these properties, they have also proposed that city companies be decided over indirect photographers to repair thelight visitors new tau ability, of for instance, take Auford laptop gear essence with state. 277 and Route 522 would not have loading docks along the building fronts visible from those roadways. So they have agreed to remove the possibility of loading docks where they are immediately adjoining the roadway. They've also proffered to provide a historic signage on the subject property commemorating the Battle of Double Tollgate. That was a comment that was raised by the Historic Resources Advisory Board, which they have agreed to proffer to. Number two, where most of the significant changes were made today, pertains to transportation. Again, they are specifying conformance with that generalized development plan, including the possibility of having four site entrances as shown on the GDP. They've agreed to provide a right-of-way reservation for the future widened condition of Fairfax Pike or Route 277, and they've agreed to make a future dedication as requested by the county or VDOT. Again, that change highlighted in red was made from your work session. They've agreed to provide a new roadway for the City of Fairfax. They've agreed to provide a new roadway for the City of Fairfax. They've agreed to provide a new roadway for the City of Fairfax. They've agreed to provide a new roadway for the City of Fairfax. They've agreed to provide a 10-foot-wide multi-use trail along both 277 and Route 522. They have proffered to provide left and right turn lanes at the site entrances, and they have clarified in that proffer that final entrance location would be made at the time of site plan. They have proffered to provide all streets to a public street standard acceptable to VDOT. And then these two changes, the first pertains to proffer 2.7, which is, you know, the first part of the roadway is in regard to regional intersection improvements, and provided sufficient right-of-way exists, they will make those improvements when warranted or requested by the Virginia Department of Transportation or before the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for 1.5 million square feet of buildings on the property. That is a change from what was in the proffer packet but has been made today clarifying that they would make those improvements earlier in the development process provided sufficient right-of-way exists. They've also agreed to perform assistance. The second change is the signal justification report for entrances A and D as shown on the GDP before the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the first building on the property. That is a change to lower the threshold from a certain amount of development to ensure that those, that signal study is conducted and any improvements are made prior to the issuance of the first certificate of occupancy. They've also agreed to provide a right-of-way reservation for the future dedication of the comprehensive plan collector road as shown on the GDP, which staff mentioned earlier. Proffer three pertains to site proffer payments and they have provided 10 cents per square foot of buildings for fire and rescue services. Proffer four pertains to limited uses. They have prohibited the development of regional criminal justice enforcement and detention facilities and freestanding restaurants and or any restaurant that includes a drive-through or window fast food service. This was a concern raised by the planning commission and staff would report that no changes have been made to that proffer following your work session. Proffer five. Proffer six pertains to the exclusion of public property from the proffers noting that public streets are excluded from the proffer restrictions. Proffer six pertains to serverability. Proffer seven pertains to binding effect noting that the proffers run with the land. And proffer eight pertains to the escalator clause where they would escalate any monetary contributions after 12 months of the approval of the rezoning using the consumer price index model. This is the generalized development plan. Proffer seven pertains to the exclusion of public property from the proffers running through the land. This is the generalized development plan included with your application. It shows the approximate location of four site entrances, two in the westernmost land bay and three in the eastern land bay, two on 277 and one on 522. They also show that future plan collector roadway that is shown on your comprehensive plan bisecting the property noting that is a right of way reservation for future dedication at such time that is requested. As is customary with our applications, we do provide positives and concerns. Staff would note that there was a delay in the application. Proffer six pertains to the exclusion of public property from the proffer's application. There was some shifting around of the positives and concerns as a result of the proffer changes that were made today. In regard to positives, the proposed zoning district, which is to M1 light industrial, is typically associated with the future land use designation for industrial for which significant portions of the property are designated. And further, the proposed generally aligns with broader comprehensive plan policy in support of opportunities for industrial development, ensuring a broad selection of employment opportunities and expanding the county's industrial tax base to support low residential tax rates. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right, I would by reading this board member previously this morning, I think this is something that you might not have expected and I willeline orange speaker to take it from me in other words. Are you available for any other meetings until we pass trial menus? Thank you, and it happens that at first marker is the people who arrange good sample moments for the bill makes the development plan very ehrlich, all different again issues sit closely to the dispersion of useful materials. Thank you. Thank you. speaks to that high quality and site design that is envisioned in your comprehensive plan and then those proper transportation improvements include uh reservation area for the plan collector road future 277 reservation and dedication to allow for widening of that facility they've addressed the planned trails contained in your comprehensive plan they've agreed to provide regional improvements to key intersections that is your double toll gate intersection route 522 and 277 and they've made a commitment to installing those improvements as warranted at all site entrances prior to building occupancy again remove reducing that trigger that we raise concern with at the work session no application is complete without concerns of course this rezoning remains mostly silent on the potential and excluded uses or the area plan envision mix of uses on portions of the property along route 277 that are designated for mixed use industrial office or muio and unreasonably restricted m1 zoning lacks compatibility with the broader planning area including the lake frederick urban development area to the south the overhead utility exemption lacks sufficient justification and staff would note is an atypical request at this stage of development the chapter 144 the subdivision ordinance does not distinguish between existing overhead lines or new power lines it says that all public utilities are required to be put underground unless the board of supervisors grants a waiver so again it is an atypical request at this stage of development and staff continues to have concerns with the feasibility of proffer 2.7 those are your regional intersection improvements 277 and 522 noting that it may be potentially limited by the availability of sufficient right-of-way that is spelled out in the proffers and if right-of-way is not sufficient other improvements that are unknown as of today may not fully mitigate those impacts and staff would ask that the applicant clarify that in their presentation which i believe that they will so this item is presented to you all for public hearing and finally i would like to ask you to read the presentation and then we will move on to the next item and that is the planning commission and the planning commission is the board of supervisors on the proposed rezoning and we are anticipating a board of supervisors public hearing on october 28th staff would note that mr ty lawson is here representing peterson and the applicant and we also have mr white pearson that is here i believe there were some questions uh that will be directed to him as well and i know he has a brief presentation so i'll turn it back over to you mr chairman thank you mr klein any questions for mr klein see am i right yes sir mr dehaven thank you mr chairman uh two quick questions mr klein um looking back at bdot's comment letter one of their comments was with the alignment of the entrances and recommending it be aligned with the madison entrance does the current set of proffers address that i know we talked about entrances but i don't know if we talked about alignment it does it notes that there's a site plan process and at the time of site plan the final entrance location will be determined what typically happens is with generalized development takenипured and then there will be a selectedvelopment juice field which will determine that the was available but we will know when to do more planning Edin repodi on going forward and if if these are being one of the options in ouraciousu the department has a title for these prior process so there's a limit on the limits sofpsd project for examples on that this is a tool here but as ed comes in here sergeant please turn to mercury lagoon a good day jeff One more quick question on item 2.7 in the proffer. It looks like it was changed, and it now reads that they would be triggered, the improvements would be triggered when requested by VDOT or before the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for a 1.5 million square foot building. Does that mean if they build a building less than 1.5 million square feet, even multiples of them, we never trigger that, and that never has to happen? What happens during the site plan process is VDOT will run what's known as a signal warrant to determine if a signal is needed. If that is tripped by the size of the development, then VDOT would then request a signal justification report. Signal justification report will provide the actual type of signalization or other facility type that mitigates the conflict at the entrance point, and then they would be required to install that prior to the occupancy of the building. So the clarification of that language ensures that that VDOT process remains intact and isn't languished. It's limited by the trigger of 1.5 million square feet. So we consulted with those revised proffers with VDOT staff, and we are comfortable with the way that the language is written, that we will have those mitigation measures in place prior to any buildings being constructed. Thank you. Mr. Thomas. This project's going to generate 7,400 vehicles a day, and I couldn't find anywhere where it said where it had a distribution of whether they were heavy vehicles, 18-wheelers, POVs, or what they were. But if we would look at what has been done in other parts of the county, such as on Tasker Road, where we end up the initially VDOT or whoever built it went through there, and they have a right-of-way for four lanes, two lanes in each direction. They went ahead and they did degrading, the utilities and everything, for that entire right-of-way. So it's laid out that four lanes can be constructed there without any additional or not any significant additional grading or utility work there. Only two lanes were paved. It would seem to me that if we're going to increase the traffic at that point on 277 in that area from this project, and it wouldn't just be 277. Some of it would go. It would go 522. But it would make sense to me that a similar type philosophy would be used by VDOT or whoever, that that section from 522 to their entrances should be a minimum of three-lane paved with turn lanes, adequate stacking lanes, and a right-of-way that is in place with grading and utilities already accomplished, that when the need comes in there, that they could go in and pave a fourth lane and have a four-lane road then at that end of 277. I know there's studies about four-laning 277 the whole way to Stephen City. Sometime in the future, that'll probably occur. Does VDOT have any plans that you're aware of or that the county's aware of to take this road to 277? I think that the county is aware of that. I think that the county is aware of that. The intersection at 277, 345, 22, and then back as far as needed, which at this point, because of this development, will probably be back to their furthest, westernmost entrance, and three-laning that or four-laning that. And if they would have those plans, how difficult would it be getting the right-of-way and the grading outside of the development? What is the right-of-way developer doing it? Is there any discussion on that from VDOT? The short of it is there are no immediate plans, but we are fortunate to have Joe Johnson here this evening. He may be able to add some clarity to that. Mr. Johnson, would you like to try to do that? But again, keep in mind, a lot of that right-of-way is off-site to this applicant. They don't control the right-of-way furniture so it would have to be undertaken by a VDOT entity. They have significant right-of-way on the north side of 277 that they control. They have significant right-of-way on the north side of 277. They have significant right-of-way on the north side of 277. right they do but it doesn't go all the way to 522 it's it's well short in fact so let me introduce mr. Johnson answer the question I know the applicant has spent significant time since the work session working up design and cross sections that they have in their presentation they have their transportation here's as well so please let them address what they what they believe is feasible so mr. Johnson good evening mr. Johnson good evening Joe Johnson area land use engineer V dot so we are getting the right away for their half of the four-lane divided roadway with this rezoning application so we are getting that part of it there's no current plans for four-lane divided roadway out there on 277 we haven't as far as I know the county has not made a smart scale application for that so there's currently no plans to do that in the imminent future so does that answer your question or well it does but since you're here I'll conveniently ask you some more questions you're here I'll conveniently ask you some more questions what would cause V dot to have plans to four lane that section or three lane that section similar like Taska Road is now that would allow additional development at a reduced cost amount I mean V dot and the county can't do anything as cheap as a contractor can do it so how how would V dot or what would be the trip point where V dot would say yeah we're adding we're adding 7400 additional trips a significant number of them are going to be heavy vehicles 18 wheelers there's going to be a lot of stacking you know statistics and TIA studies look good on paper but when you're out there at the intersection the people at Lake Frederick and the folks that use that wrote part of the road there are going to see reality when it starts stacking up and people start hitting tractor trailers in the rear because they're not going to be able to get to their destination because they're stacked and parked on 277 so what what would be the tripping point at V dot would turn around and say okay we need to do something here well I mean it's the source of funding is really what what the issue is for something like that but I think a two lane roadway can handle up to 24,000 vehicles per day as long as the intersections are functioning properly so our focus here has been to make sure that the white oak intersection was was going to be reconstructed with the the white oak intersection was was going to be reconstructed with the the white oak intersection was was going to be reconstructed with the the say so lastКА c muddy ninth and we would also need to focus on the or equality cell rezoning and then the five 522 340 277 intersection with this rezoning so that's kind of what we focused on so we're adding about a third of the traffic needed to get to that twenty four thousand yeah I think the projections are twenty two thousand within with everything we've got proposed out there they攪xn ultimately we're getting close thank you okay thank you mr. Johnson any questions we would have asked that would have served wonderful its purpose vision management to my left for Mr. Klein. Yes, Ms. Bruback. On, let's see, on the proffer statement 1.3, it talks about the buffer and the one and a half, or not one and a half, it says one half inch caliber deciduous tree. That sounds kind of... It's one and a half. It should be one and a half. So the current zoning ordinance requires four foot tall evergreen trees, one and a quarter deciduous trees, and 36 inch shrubs. They're proposing to go basically a quarter inch over, so inch and a half caliber deciduous tree and a six foot tall evergreen tree that is above what the ordinance requires. And that's how they're addressing that kind of enhanced buffer and screening element that was brought to their attention. Okay. Yeah. I was just reading it as a half inch. We'll make sure that gets clarified. Yes, ma'am. Okay. That's it. The other question, Mr. Markert. On the map that shows the zoning map with the portion of it south of 277, that's the land use. Yeah. Can you tell us what land, what uses are possible for that area? The plan land use is mixed use industrial office. And depending on which section of the comprehensive plan you look at, there's various uses that are allowed there. It's not unrestricted industrial, right? It says it right there in the name, mixed use industrial office. So there was at the time that it was included on all the plans, an emphasis on doing office type development, office parks with other uses. Maybe it's primarily an office, but there might be a shipping and distribution element to it, or it may be flex space or shared spaces that would foster small business development or trade contractors or things like that. So- Yeah. So it's hard to make the connection between unrestricted M1 and that zoning district. Again, significant portions of their site are industrial. So M1 does make sense. But on the frontage piece on 277, the plan language is very specific that it's mixed use industrial office and it should be harmonious with the surrounding development, particularly the Lake Frederikerman area to the south. So that element is still missing from their application. Got it. Thank you. Mr. McKay. Is there a small sliver of the property that's actually in Clark County? It may be just a tiny, tiny corner. We did solicit comments from Clark County. They noted that they wanted to see the VDOT comments in the staff report. We sent them to them asking for another round of comments, and we did not receive a second round of comments from them, although I did speak with the planning director, but they didn't offer anything concrete about their adjacency to the development or that small piece. So typically such a small piece, they just let Frederick County handle the development, although we will seek their comment on any site plans. Anything else to my left? Anything else to my right? Thank you. Mr. Pearson? We miss you, sir. Good to see you. But Mr. Bishop's doing a great job. I'm glad the newer model's working out for you all. It's a pleasure to be with you all again. A dagger to the heart there. I don't know. I'm here to speak on behalf of Frederick County government, answer any questions regarding this project and its relationship to the grant application that's been filed for this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Ms. Ms. Ms. Ms. development authorities as a pass-through to either private developers or for the economic development authority to make the improvements themselves to ready sites for economic development that can look like grading infrastructure all sorts of different things that go into the kind of puzzle pieces for putting together a large project like this so the applicant is going to cover some more of it in their slide so I don't want to bore you with the details of the program overall I just want to clarify kind of where we're at and how we got here so former economic development authority staff filed that application in June and to be clear the County Economic Development Authority operates with independence from the county government as it relates to which properties they file grant applications and support of so they went and filed that knowing full and well it wasn't zoned but it would have to be zoned if it were to qualify at the end of the grant application cycle in order to receive it it's a requirement of the EDP and the EDP is a requirement of the EDP and the EDP is a requirement of the EDP that the property be properly zoned so the applicant the EDA and the state have known all along this property needs to go through a rezoning and if for some reason it weren't to then it would not qualify for this grant application cycle they could come back and refile next year if they were to later on secure the rezoning now the final awards for that grant program are anticipated to occur before the end of October I would like to emphasize one point in particular for you all to remember that the EDP is not a grant application that is not a not a grant application that is not a directly appropriate to the entire issue as the Mayor mentioned they're not generally appropriate to all relative to the grant and the rezoning and that's that they're completely independent matters they really have no bearing on each other it's not something that I feel like the Planning Commission needs to consider in your deliberations or your recommendation that there's this grant hanging out here there's no concern that Virginia Economic Development Partnership will be frustrated if your action or the board's were to in any way jeopardize that grant it's something happening in the background that is kind of an awareness process, either the urgency or the overall recommendation that you offer on the application. Again, the EDA, the developer, and VEDP have known all along that the property wasn't zoned yet for industrial development, that it was being pursued for it, and all parties understand that if it were not to pass or were to be delayed, that there's always next year to proceed with the grant application again. And with that, Mr. Chairman, I'm happy to answer any questions you all might have. Questions to my left? Questions to my right? Mr. Thomas? Yes, thank you. That was informative. One question. If previously we had an application to VEDP that ended up that we didn't get it because the project was turned down by the board, if we turn this, if, you know, however this plays out, but if the rezoning doesn't go through, will Frederick County get a black mark with VEDP that we've had two in a row that didn't meet the rezoning criteria to get approval? It's a fair question. I specifically asked the same question of VEDP, not referencing the previous project you were asking about relative to the timing of this, just knowing that sometimes projects get tabled during your considerations and ask them if it got tabled past when they were going to do the awards. Does that look negatively on us ever getting funding in the future? And they said absolutely not. They completely understand that these are local legislative decisions that happen. Many of the applications that go through this process are pending for some sort of decision and it happens all the time and they generally understand. So it wouldn't hurt their chances of getting, reapplying next year and getting... Not according to my conversations with VEDP, no. Thank you. Any other questions? Comments? Mr. Pearson, while I have you, one of the things I asked the developer to do previously was to proffer out data centers. Since that time, the board has taken action to remove data centers from our zoning ordinance as well as the TM district and the governor came out with her executive order on data centers and a variety of other things incorporated into it. One of the items that I've read in the governor's executive order says, hey, the VEDP is prohibited from participating in planning for or participating in development of data centers that require more than 25 megawatts of power. So how does that apply to this? Sure. Assuming the property is rezoned for M1 and assuming that they are selected in a competitive pool to receive the grant, then, if the government's lawIVE for land, insurance, maintenance, and recycling, doesn't take into consideration the cost of our components, then we state that we include 20 megawatts of power within the board's usable operating space. And, of course, the establishes or this person something that could be byorder, so the VEDP, the funds, VEDP will be reduced, so the eighty six 미� creams SecuPro and so a few of the projects that today take into consideration are, all of the water needs effective support through voter Deaf Aunt yet over Palm Well, Lincoln garbage. They are new Boston's going out for Legislative Job See, Clinton neighbor come on, and then random scivets as well. They also provide new protection in that respect right now your ordinance doesn't allow it so they can't do it if they accepted the grant funds and then chose To do it and you changed your ordinance to allow it Then they'd have to pay back the grant funds as long as it was still covered within the timeframe of the performance agreement Which goes from when the grants awarded typically for many years after the actual grant funds have been expended Very good. Thank you, sir. Oh Mr. Kearns Thank You mr. I just thought of something did the the verbiage within the grant application Was there a specific use that was that was laid out in there that was that was spelled out like manufacturing and warehousing Ernie? Was there anything specific or did it just say development? I don't believe so when the applicants up I think y'all can ask them directly They did the the bulk of prepping the grant application and then the EDA submitted on their behalf and I was not involved with either of those processes Anything else Oh Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Klein. I have one more question for you if I may sir I got a lot of written comments email comments, which I try to respond to at least acknowledge receipt of them, but the Following up on mr. Marker's question the the mixed office use or the the mixed use along 277 We had 30 acres of commercial that we that we were able to Ask mr. Madison to include in his rezoning Is there some commercial over in Lake Frederick as well? There is planned commercial on the 522 front of Lake Frederick. I believe it's around 30 ish acres It is not developed in the ten years that I've been here at the county But there is a piece of commercial sitting at the front of their entrance Okay, and that's about 30 acres roughly. Yes, sir. So there's 60 acres. How much of this? How long does it take for this commercial to develop? What's the general life cycle? Life cycle for raw land going to commercial It depends Entirely on location, but if you look at your market study that's been done for the comprehensive plan Retail is not one of those kind of like needed industry types right there I think the the amount of additional acreage of retail we needed sub 100 acres across the entire County Where is industrials anywhere depending on the growth scenario from 400 to 700 acres of additional need in the county So you can see the challenges in developing retail. There's been significant changes in the market share of retail. It's gone mostly commercial, or sorry, mostly online. So it's wholly driven by location. We see that play out with the grocery store debate that occurs in the county frequently, like why can't we get a certain grocery store? There's so many market factors. It's not just about showing it on your map. It's what road is it on, how many people live around it, and those kind of things. So when we talk mixed use down here on the Gibson property, are we talking about a mixture of the uses that are within the M1 zoning, which includes a variety of what I would call commercial types of things? The emphasis on the term is office. So when the land use categorization was added to the comp plan and when the policies were written about the state of the county, which in some cases may be 10, 15, 20 years ago, the emphasis was office. And at the time, the office market was booming and the county wanted to attract kind of corporate headquarters or regional headquarters, and that's why they were outlining all these areas for mixed use office. But certainly it's more about the context of how it's cited and how it relates to the surrounding uses. I think that's why it was identified as mixed use there, noting that south of 277 are other uses, right? You have commercial uses and primarily residential uses. So sensitivity needs to be given about what is there, and I think the applicant has done some of that in addressing the question of what is there. I think that's why it's so important to have a mix use component. I think that's why it's so important to have a mix use component in addressing building height and setback and buffering, but certainly the use component, it's impossible to assume that their proffers mitigate every potential impact of a certain use, noise, glare, odor, vibration, whatever it may be. It's hard to assume that. So that's why when we typically talk about the mixed use areas, we want them to select a series of uses that they think fit in regard to what the adjoining uses are around them. So that's been the debate we've been having with them. Going back to their preliminary comment, there was an evidence data that we issued in June, and they could address why they have chosen not to limit additional uses. That's for them to justify or not. Okay. Thank you very much, sir. Okay. Mr. Lawson. Good evening, sir. Good evening. etown Lawson, here on behalf of the applicant and with me are representatives from Peterson, also from our civil engineering firm. And I have just just been asked in my party, but we, as Mr. repeaters have tried to explain the genetics here, but we really don't see времени like the method we cover all these years meeting at its heart, And I'm sure you'll hear from our traffic engineering firm, Mr. Sitzman from Grove Slade as well. Great questions, great presentation, and I'll try to get through this and then get to your questions. We are here on behalf of the Peterson Companies, and here are some examples of some of their projects. You may be familiar with many of them, including National Harbor. And they're local to the Northern Virginia area and around the D.C. area. And they've been in our community for quite a while as well, along Shady Elm Renaissance. And, of course, you all know the chocolate plant. These are industrial projects that they've done. There were some questions that were raised during the work session about, show us some of the projects you've built. And. And so we've included a few slides of those. This is the subject property. Can't help but point out where we are. Right in the middle, up and down the 522 corridor. Conveniently located to both the Virginia Inland Port and also the airport. And we'll talk about uses. And we did talk about uses during the work session. And what we think would be attracted to this long. Comp planned industrial area. But it's it's right in the middle and it's on a tremendous corridor that that provides access and connects 66 up to 81. And there are other uses near us. We we did the Home Depot distribution facility, which you can that's that white box you can see just kind of south of Wal-Mart that's been there for years. They're located there for the same reason. Close proximity to the Inland Port. And we've included a few slides of those. Comp planned. Tyler just went went through that very well. It's been comp plan for for industrial as long as we can remember. I think Mr. Thomas made reference to John Riley calling it something. But it's been around as long as any of us can remember. So we're pleased to be able to finally deliver on on what's been planned. This is a layout. You saw this before. It's a layout. It's a layout. It's been adjusted a little bit. Putting the docks as you noticed in the words and the proffers. So they're they're more to the interior not along the fronts of the buildings. They'll talk later about the uses that folks are are talking about or a mix of uses. Can't help but point out we're looking at smaller buildings fronting along Fairfax Pike, which we think will result in a mix of. Smaller flex type industrial uses and I'm sure you're familiar with those. There are offices and things like that in the front. For example and then and then where small warehousing in the back. Why I talked a little bit about the business ready sites program and gave you a brief overview. And frankly I think. Frederick County EDA is is being a little modest. They they did apply for this Peterson helped them and and put together the the data and the information and what the investment would be. Because remember the way this thing works. The property owner puts in the investment and then and only then you're eligible for a portion up to approximately a third of a reimbursement. So. You know. You know. You know. You know. So. In order to get the one third you gotta put in the three thirds. And this application was put together by Frederick County EDA. It's a very competitive program across the commonwealth. All jurisdictions are are vying for a a limited pot of money. And we've we've made the cut they they have toward this site and and from what we hear. We're we're optimistic that that we we may actually be successful with this. This can only be done by a governmental agency. There were questions asked. Well this is Peterson's application. It's Peterson's money. No. The only way this program works is the localities have to apply for it. And typically it is an economic development authority or or economic development commission that applies. And submits that they have sites that are that are qualifying. And that is zoning and and business ready. They have water sewer. They have transportation. And the whole purpose of this program. The commonwealth wants to put money into sites. To get them that much quicker to development. The chocolate factory is a great example. But for that that grant. That site would not would not be underway here today. So the the EDA did a tremendous job. They've applied for this. They've kept up with it. As I understand it's quite a bit of paperwork. And and we're we're in the final stages of this. And the reason for the at the end. We're going to ask for your recommendation. The board of supervisors. Is we want to continue. Continue. To stay eligible. So that hopefully we'll be successful. And the county will receive these funds. For reimbursement purposes for the development of the site. The the funding and the funding is for regional infrastructure improvements. Which be traffic water sewer. And that that obviously benefits the site. But it also benefits the region. And then there are certain site specific improvements. And costing that has been put in. To the application. As I just said. In order to to make the final final if you will. And and and get that award at the end of this month. It's tight. But October 28th. There is a board of supervisors. Hearing. And then again. Said it at the beginning. But I'll say it again. It is a reimbursement process. The funds run through the EDA. And then if Peterson. If we're successful. And it's awarded. If Peterson does the work. Demonstrates that they spent this money. Then they'd be eligible. Mr. Wyatt. Pearson used the. The number 10 million. If if we're that fortunate. Then you're talking about. Private money and private investment in excess of 30 million. You put it in. And then you'd be eligible. And then. And then you'd be eligible. For that reimbursement. Proffer updates. Tyler. Did a very good summary of those. But we met with you all. You all gave us comments. And we heard you. And we made. Edits. So all of the. Triggers for doing improvements. And so on. Are still present. What we've done. Is the terminology that was used. And the way we used it. To make sure that. That the. Proffer. Is. Descriptive. And more restrictive. On ourselves. So now we have. Earlier. Triggers to perform certain tasks. Especially as it relates. To the road improvements. But we did. Add language. And. And requirements for architectural features. And. Pivoted the. The loading docks. So you don't see them. From. The. Road. But we did. Add language. And. Requirements for architectural features. And. We also. Increased the. The height of. The berm. And also. The. The size of the plantings. And not just simply. Followed the ordinance. Requirements. So these are over. And above. What's required. In the ordinance. And then the building heights. We heard what you all said. I can't remember. Who mentioned. Kind of a step back. Concept. And so. What we've done. Is. Forty five feet. Along the. The corridors. And then we've. Decorated. The. Or. Ground. And then. We've. Devized. The. The. The. The. And then. It. Can. Step back. But the idea. Is. Is to improve. The view shed. And actually. As as I pointed out. The smaller buildings. Especially along five. Twenty two. They're probably. Going to. Lend themselves. Well they're. They're smaller. Buildings. So they're going. To. Mr. Sitzman is going to go into these in great details, but cannot emphasize enough. What we have added is earlier triggers for all of those items that were raised. The entrance improvements, the through lanes along Fairfax Pike, turn lanes, decel lanes, et cetera, all those things are now required to be examined and installed earlier. The SJR language, again, we've done it prior to certificate of occupancy. And then the power line relocation, we did revise that language. Someone made the comment that somehow we were going to suggest that all of our lines feeding the buildings would be above ground. That was not the intent at all. There is a transmission line running through the property. It will be relocated. And again, actually in a call, I can't remember if it was today or yesterday, that was a good move to put that language in there. Because in the absence of that language, even though I don't think it was intended, all lines on property would have to be underground. Then we'd end up having to deal with somebody else's transmission line and trying to figure out how to bury it. So that is still there, and hopefully that's clarified. But all the lines feeding the buildings, and throughout the industrial park, will be underground. And with this, if I could, I'm going to let Mr. Sitzman walk up. We were asked about the improvements, and staff made comments about, we want to see these improvements. We want to know they're going to be able to fit within the right of way. And I'll let Kevin address that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next tie. For the record, Kevin Sitzman with Grove Slade Transportation Planners and Engineers. I'll try not to go into great detail, but I would like to go through and summarize a little bit of the transportation improvements. I don't really think that they've been shown quite as the total package that maybe they should have been. So here on the screen, we have a little bit different of a, and I don't know how to get the pointer to move. It is. Well, sorry. I don't know if you can see it. Just use the mouse. Just use the mouse. All right. And maybe I can stop clicking the wrong button. All right. So along the Fairfax Pike Corridor, we have a series of improvements at the, at these proposed site entrances, starting on the left here, just to orient everybody. And there's, there's key plans in the, in the coming slides to put us back in context here. Starting on the left is the proposed signal with Madison 277. Then along the frontage of the property, widening that's associated with both the Lake Frederick proposed entrance, as well as what we're calling entrance A to the Gibson property. That was located there in an effort to try and consolidate that into a four lane, sorry, four-legged intersection so that that would take a little bit of a turn. And then along the right is the proposed signal for the Lake Frederick intersection. And that's the one that's going to take advantage of a potential, and I'm going to use that word a couple times, we'll talk about that shortly, potential new traffic signal for the Lake Frederick intersection. I know that it had been mentioned previously that maybe the, the entrance needed to take advantage of the Madison 277 access point. I think subsequent to the comments from, from VDOT, there's been some recognition of the possibility of having both of those signals be taken over by the Lake Frederick intersection. But that isn't necessarily what we're trying to say because I want to get it out there, but I also hadn't heard the very first reference about lights that pull up, and the join building, them to see if a NIBB system was잠 nor further damage can be done along the wrong two lanes but after the sight Color, the injuries and enormous city-to-city damage and it. I think that there should be some reference having shared that anything más zera on the top of the successful next ?" more than energia or amplification versus presence. potential, again, traffic signal along there, and then off-site, double tollgate signal improvements, and we'll get into each of these in a little bit more detail. So again, going back to the Lake Frederick side, the purplish color represents the proposed improvements with Lake Frederick, additional left turn lane, that creates a widening of 277 there, additional right turn lane. The proposal here for Gibson is to match that, basically to mirror that, adding a right turn lane in, in the westbound direction, left turn lane in, in the eastbound direction. Again, if we can make it happen, a new traffic signal, the left turn lane would result in an extension of the widening. Along Fairfax Pike, and the obvious purpose of these is to make sure that those turns, especially the left turns in, but also the right turns in, are made out of the through lanes in each direction on 277 to improve both the operations, traffic operations, as well as the safety. The right and right out entrance, pretty straightforward. It's just tapers and a a a a touch felt signal on four Panoramic, X New View bomb and green viewét mix of that left turn bay, and additional widening even on the east side of the intersection here where we have the right turn lane. Moving to the double toll gate intersection, this is a slightly smaller scale. What we have in the eastbound direction along 277 is the addition of a lane, an exclusive left turn lane. Currently, it's a shared through and left movement, but an exclusive left turn lane at the signal to go from eastbound 277 to north on 522. And then in the median of 522 northbound, an additional lane and then reconfiguration of the existing turn lane to create dual left turn lanes coming north on 522 to go west on Fairfax Pike. Those two lanes obviously require two lanes to receive that traffic. So additional widening. And then the additional widening along this stretch here is relatively significant there. And I think it starts to get at what Mr. Thomas was talking about before within the existing right-of-way. Now, I want to make sure that we cover that. I know there was a lot of discussion about that. These are conceptual plans, but they're engineered light, if you will, not exact final engineering. Certainly haven't been reviewed in great detail. By any of the agencies which would need to happen at site plan. But we have enough detail here that we're pretty confident that all of this stuff can fit in the right-of-way under the current requirements. That doesn't mean that there may not be new VDOT requirements in the future that require some other turn radius, some other consideration that creates a situation where we couldn't comply with that in future years. Hence the question. And yes, it's a little tight. Right? There's not a lot of right-of-way here. And so we're really trying to squeeze as much improvement as we can into this location. So trying to be forward looking to make sure that everybody's aware that if there was a different standard, if there was a request for additional improvements, that may not fit within the right-of-way. And we've given control in that proffer back to the agencies. Right? So if for some reason of these, call it three new lanes, only two of those could be built within the right-of-way, it wouldn't be whatever's the cheapest, whatever benefits either the applicant or the end user the best. It would be the choice as to the county and VDOT as to what the configuration within that existing right-of-way would be. And then up on... 522 at the northern entrance here, entrance D. Reconfiguration of the median. Making sure that new turn lanes or up to standard turn lanes are available within the intersection box here. Again, up to VDOT standards. And that's where I'd like to talk about that just a little bit. All of the improvements that occur within the right-of-way here. And any project within the Commonwealth, actually, are required to obtain a permit from VDOT in order to do that work within the right-of-way. There is an entire process for that. Part of the reason why the proffer specifically states, in addition to the standard site plan process, we're trying to put in additional backstops. Right? Right. To make sure that the new traffic signals are available. So, there's a set of warrants that are required to be evaluated. If those warrants are not satisfied, nobody's going to be able to put in a new traffic signal. Right? Right. Part of the reason that we had the higher threshold in the trigger initially is we're a little concerned if we just drop in a 200,000 square foot building, there's not enough traffic to meet the warrant. The signal warrant portion of the signal justification report would be turned down. No signal would be found to be appropriate and necessary. So then that study would need to be done again. And again. And again. Until such time as there was enough traffic to justify the need for a traffic signal. So we heard all the comments. We have dialed down. And in the case of the signal justification reports for intersection, for entrance D and entrance A, removed that threshold altogether. We will do the SJR. We will identify at what point the signal would be warranted and necessary. And then it can be installed at that point. There is, sorry, let me back up one more there. So with all of these improvements, the traffic impact analysis found that with all of these improvements, all of the intersections that are shown on the screen here would operate, similarly to or better than future conditions if this, if the Gibson development didn't happen. So this set of improvements more than mitigates the impacts of this development. With one exception, and I think it's fairly critical here. Entrance C here does not have enough traffic to warrant a signal. It has a little bit longer of a delay coming out. It's a little bit longer than the standard would suggest is good. It only has about two cars waiting to come out, but it's not, the wait time is a little bit longer. It's level of service E. And so that one doesn't meet, but there's nothing we can do about it because there's only about a quarter as much traffic as would be the very minimum threshold to warrant a signal. So with all of that said, this improvement package often is a little bit more difficult. I mean, it's a little bit more difficult to get a signal. It's a little bit more difficult to get a signal. It's a little bit more difficult to get a signal. But it offsets the impacts of the development at those surrounding intersections and provides safe places for even the larger vehicles to turn from into and out of the development. I believe there's just a couple more slides. No questions for the traffic guy. We're going to interrupt. Thank you. Okay. Okay. And when you do, also ask him for the six other, and I'm serious, six other projects that are factored in to get to these numbers and these improvements. More conceptual building elevations, again, the differing materials that you all had asked about and this would be an example of buildings that are along Fairfax Pike. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. So just related for theего is the items that you talked about with the use of ultralow, either onращ- Testing under driving and utveckling all of those points. And I don't have components on how the car does work. OK. Your question is how does that work as fairfax pike and dam ship do they work in areas that might require the cost of lighted Está challenged me to show up cans exciting businesses that that authority is seeing and looking to attract. And of course, what's at the Inland Port. And I may turn it over to Clark or Taylor to speak about their marketing efforts. They're obviously very strong on our community and want to invest in it and have. And what it is they're looking at. Because everyone asks, what's coming? Sorry. Absolutely. Thank you, Ty. Clark with Peterson Companies. So this list of uses is what we see most prominent in the market right now. And we work with brokers, tenants, and do market studies across the mid-Atlantic. And this is what's coming here. This is what's coming everywhere else. Leading the bat off with defense tech right here. Biomanufacturing, mission critical suppliers to support everything that's going on in Northern Virginia. Food and beverage production, which I know Frederick County is familiar with and has. And aerospace. So this is what we are targeting. This is what brings some of the most economic growth to the area. And this is what we hope to lead with on our site. First and foremost, as a developer, our focus is economic development and getting sites into production quickly to promote stimulus to the state and the county. For that reason, we try to leave a wide net of uses available so when that tenant does ultimately come along, and it usually takes a while, we have the flexibility to fit them into our allowable use cases. So when we constrict our use cases, it really constricts our ability to deliver a successful product and actually impact the fiscal nature of the community. A case study on this is something that I've been facing for the past 12 months, 24 months. And I think it's going to be a really important one. And I think it's going to be a really important one. And I think it's going to be a really important one. And I think it's going to be a really important one. We have an industrial site along Wellington Road and Prince William County, whose underlying zoning is light industrial, similar to what we are shooting for here. The overlapping small area plan, though, eliminates our ability for some of these light industrial uses to the extent that I have interviewed 40 potential tenants over the past 12 months and 35 of them are only of them are not allowed to operate on our site because of the use restrictions of the small area plan. So when we talk about thinning down our allowable uses, that is one reason that we try not to do that. When those uses do come along, the mixed uses, we are absolutely going to pursue them, but we feel that if we continue to eliminate more uses from our allowable case, we will ultimately land in a situation where we have a tenant, but we can't develop because their use case is not allowed on the site. So that's why we'd like to leave a wide net of available uses. Happy to take any questions. I think this is the last slide of our PowerPoint. So are your, are your, I'm sorry, buildings. Miss Gazelle, please. The targeted uses, are you building this, do you get your end user first and then build to site? Because some of those uses are not available. When those are available? I, I think so, but. You're planning to, if there was a protocols I'm not making a stand on the costs to learn the basic method, but we do, we've got some non accounting structure where we can you can look at where you get the direct electricity to get back to the place where we were from. Something to look at as far as the overall facilities budget is concerned. we're committing to this type of architecture, those, if we build them spec, will typically lend themselves to attract that mixed use, that office user, flex industrial user that you guys, it sounds like, are targeting for that area. So in the instance, if we go speculative on a site and build the building before a tenant, I think we're well positioned to attract those types of tenants. Okay, so the employment opportunities are... Just like Shady Elm. Yeah, yes, just like Shady Elm, which right off of Renaissance Drive, we're constructing a building right now, and it's going to house a printing and scanning company's headquarters that's coming out of Dulles. Ms. Kozel, while I got you here, you had asked about the architectural components of the buildings, and they've made some changes to those. Is that more in line with what you were looking for? Because you had a pretty nice document you put together for us. I mean, it is. I would like to see more of a transition from down to 277, because we got Lake Frederick, and I think the building height restriction definitely helps as not being just an industrial park. That's kind of what I'm envisioning here, and I'm trying to picture something a little bit more friendly to the neighbors. I mean, it's better. I wouldn't say it's perfect, but... We can't do perfect. Other questions to my right. Mr. Kearns. Thank you very much. Were you involved in the grant? I had that grant question earlier. Were there specific uses detailed out in the grant application? Yes, there were. In our presentation to Virginia Economic Development Partnership, we had this exact slide, and this is what we showed them that we're trying to activate in the county. And largely, they are targeting this across the Commonwealth as well, and I think that's one of the reasons that we are heavily in the running for it. So those are all nice and shiny, the nice shiny rings, right, but I don't see warehouse proffered out anywhere. What's to stop this from just being a whole bunch of just warehouse space? I think the intent of light industrial is to allow for a lot of light, but I don't see any light. That's right. That's the point. But you know, I'm not saying that this is a good idea. I'm not saying that the light industry is not going to be a good idea. I'm not saying that this is going to be a good idea. It's not going to be a good idea. I'm not saying there's going to be a good idea. But again, I'm just saying, for warehouse our intent along 277 and with our commitments to the proffers for these types of buildings long 277 is to provide that transition zone that mrs. Kozol is asking for and put the warehouses in the back but we are going for a more form-based solution approach so that whatever the building does end up being the aesthetic of it looks up to the pedigree that you guys are seeking okay thank you I think I was just trying to get some clarification from a lot of those are manufacturing uses versus just a big warehouse where trucks come and just offload stuff and you know just do distribution type things like a lot of that is is actual manufacturing that's what I was trying to kind of get at is what what is what's to keep this in the manufacturing realm and jobs realm versus just another warehouse that's where I was trying to get at sure sure and that's a great point and as Sure, and that's a great point and as those tenants go up those are the kind that we want and will heavily pursue and have heavily pursued in the past like with Clawson for example the chocolate factory on the Renaissance property and that is what we want to continue doing here any other questions to my right I have transportation question well yeah well let's come back to that because well we'll work over Kevin in a few minutes okay yeah he's he needs to get warmed up any questions to my left no questions okay can we have it Kevin now absolutely let me ask real quick mr. Johnson were you did you have an opportunity to review the proffer sir that came in this afternoon yes and I meant to ask you earlier I apologize yes I did okay are you happy with them yeah at this point that they're improved I guess the I don't know if we have the the language of the proffer's up here but I guess the improvements at the intersection of five twenty two three forty two seventy seven it's my understanding those will you made when VDOT request them is that right tie is that where we ended up on that one yes so I would just question how we enforce that proffer if the rezoning goes through and VDOT request or enter it into our proffer I guess the improvements in that actually comment the productivity is slightly higher I suppose people have had a little misdemeanor you know where's that missing something for me I last again I'll go through you know I remember Joe 95 you mentioned it was that ICMA airplane communication facilities recaps and Nice County I folks I was so curious what the assessment outcome was on Jepson California and what that sectorny one bulk so are the junior I don't know much about settings Zynergy those improvements immediately and they're not ready to build their site you know where does the county fall in enforcing that proper do we not issue plan approvals or is that is that where we end up so that would be my only question I think it might be cleaner if the county were the one to request it rather than VDOT but we'll talk with mr. Lawson about that okay but you generally speaking you're satisfied with the profits if if there's not adequate right away and I know Kevin showed us there is but if for some reason it turns out there's not adequate right away is VDOT in a position to acquire right away for this project no not that I'm aware of okay all right okay thank you sir thank you okay Kevin you got all the easy questions what is your design year let me ask you that so the design year in the study was 2036 so you're going 2035 I can do my math 2041 minus six is 2035 so you're gonna get all this designed and built in operational in nine years Wow okay that's ambitious okay mr. Thomas I know you're chomping at the bit I don't want to hold you back any longer sir just a few questions I read all 420 pages of your I appreciate that track TIA Wow and I didn't fall asleep too many times it's my standard joke it's a very statistical document there are a few pearls in it that I find hidden I wish there'd have been a summary that put everything right up front but you know I had to get back to page 130 before I figured out how much transfer how much impact this site would have on the transportation network and what I found was that the number of people that were in it was a lot of people and we're talking about 7400 trips per day 70 but that was based on 3500 exactly three and a half million square feet not 28 but then you never really said how much it reduced it going to that I could find now maybe it's hidden in there somewhere there's there's a separate document but yes okay well I found it it was like three separate documents already in this one but you I couldn't find where you had it out of that 7400 trips what is the breakdown of heavy vehicles 18 wheelers versus cars POVs I found where the existing breakdown you said was 2% well that's not the via reasonable amount for an industrial park so correct so so if we take a look at the at the lesser amount of development as you will recall the the piece to the EvoVS or the EvoVS and the EvoVS which is the one that's being developed and it's not the one that's being developed and it's not the one that's being developed of 522 was was removed that reduction is about 15% reduction in trips so we're six thousand one hundred twelve daily trips or 490 in the morning and 530 in the afternoon peak hour of those there's about 19% trucks it's an industrial park as you mentioned it's greater than 2% significantly greater than 2% on a daily basis however right you don't if you're an operator you don't want to pay to have your trucks sit in commuter traffic so during the peak hours those percentages are lower they're about 12 or 13 percent so what that works out to be is about 66 trips in the morning that are heavy vehicles in about 63 in the afternoon so 30 and 30 out of of the total site split across various entrances um um um so what you're gonna see is a couple cars a minute that's a total of inbound and outbound sorry couple trucks a minute that is 66 and 63 total inbound and outbound so about 30 in and about 30 out during each of those those peak hours over four entrances well the 30 out don't bother me quite as much as 30 in right because they're gonna have to be stacked in your development not out on 277 or 522 that is correct so you're stacking lanes will accommodate and we're looking at two maybe four a minute so we're looking at say 15 seconds if you have a cycle of a minute you're looking at four trucks sitting there to get in three or two three four totes the various entrances so yeah so in in essence you might see a a truck sitting there waiting at one of those entrances on occasion, right? Sometimes they're going to pull up. There's going to be a gap in traffic. They'll just slide right in. They won't have to wait. If it's unsignalized, if it's signalized as soon as it turns green, they'll turn in. Well, it's going to be a right turn lane in, right? Well, it depends on which way they're coming. Westbound. Right. So if you're coming eastbound on Fairfax Pike, yeah, you would be turning left into the development. There's two entrances you could turn left in. If you're going west on 277, there's three you could turn right into. I think the eastbound traffic was lower than the westbound turning in, if I remember right. That's correct. I think it was page 140 or whatever. But what you're saying is there's sufficient stacking distance that the westbound traffic and eastbound traffic can turn right into the development. Yeah. So I think that's the question. I think that's the question. I think that's the question. I think that's the question. Eastbound traffic turning in can stack and not be in the traffic lanes. That's the entire reason of putting those turn lanes in, is to allow those turning movements, particularly the left turning movement, to occur safely without impeding the through traffic. Okay. Now, the left turning movement, when you have the three entrances on 277, you talked about a left turn lane. Is the left turn lane going to extend between all three entrances? So if you're coming eastbound, you will have a dedicated lane to turn left from all three instead of weaving back and forth? So the conventional way to do that, right, is to, in order to demonstrate to drivers that that is a, in fact, a turn lane and where, and that it drops at the next intersection so you don't get the inevitable, somebody weaves over and says, whoops, this drops, let me weave back over. The preference, the design preference from the Commonwealth and most of the country is to have that lane pick up a certain distance in advance of the intersection and then clearly drop at the intersection. And then if you have another one at the next intersection, you pick it up again and you drop it and you pick it up again and drop it. Given the fact that we have, starting on the west here, we have a full movement intersection, then we have a right in, right out, there's no left turn lane at this one. But on the very left, there's a full movement intersection. And so on the very right hand side, you can start to see the striped out area where we're picking up the taper, we're moving the through lane over such that we can once again have that left turn bay. So a truck would sit about here, right? Even a full length tractor trailer would sit about here. All the rest of the space is available for queuing or deceleration or both. And it would be empty almost every minute of every day. Okay. You've got four entrances. Your volumes you're talking about are divided among those entrances, right? Again, the left turn out of entrance C, because it's up here, is even with the higher volume, 17 cars, 17 vehicles, turning out during the higher of the peak hours. It is handfuls. Yes, there's certainly higher movements at the various entrances. But we're not talking about the peak hours. It's the peak hours. Okay. But we're not talking about the peak hours. It's the peak hours. Okay. We're not talking hundreds or certainly thousands of vehicles turning at any one of these movements. They're distributed in three directions, three primary directions that they're going, and across those various entrances. Yes, one of them is right in right out, but you have at least three full movement entrances and multiple directions in which those vehicles are traveling. Yeah. And I don't have the page number. I didn't write it down. But it looks like the primary entrance on 277, the vehicle is in the front of the vehicle. Yeah. And the vehicle is in the back of the vehicle. Right. And one of the main dangers is that it automatically states between two levels, which is right at the peak hours, and then there's this phrases that sayそして that was in the middle of the car, and we were in the middle of the car, and there was this phrase that said that the engine overASH should be 22% . So, I don't get that, first thing I did, where guys are looking at is that, I don't even like Ford Turks or anything, but, yeah. I'm not going through the problems, but that's I'm not going through the problems, but that's Yeah. Yeah, okay. So it reduces the numbers, but okay. And, you know, I will say that I thought Ty probably wrote part of your TIA because the biggest thing I found in there was the legal ease that you're adding almost a third of the traffic to 277, but you're not really increasing the traffic and the traffic congestion there at all. So I guess I don't buy – I'm concerned over, you know, the TIA looks great on paper, 420 pages of analysis and convincing that you're not going to affect the overall appearance of congestion on 277. But I'm thinking about the residents down there in Lake Frederick and people that use that area. You start getting – even if it's only just – if it's only six tractor trailers an hour or one every two, three minutes, it's going to appear like there's a lot more congestion than there was before. And a lot of the level of service now are F, and you're going to improve it to an F plus. Okay, I'm not sure if that's discernible or not, but I am concerned over the thought process that's expressed in these 420 pages that you're going to make all these improvements, and it's going to seem a lot better. But I can't see that, you know, adding a third more traffic to 277 is ever going to seem a lot better without more significant improvements on the road. And that's what concerns me, and it's – I understand totally that traffic improvements are probably going to be the most expensive things for the developer to do. He's not going to be able to rent them out to anybody. He can't sell it to anybody. That's going to be money. That he's going to have to pay for that. And I understand why the turn point or the trip point is 1.5 million square feet. I think that's way too high. I think we really should be down about 500,000 square feet. I understand he's got to get some money up front to be able to pay for all this stuff before he can start doing it. But it's still – I think there's some disconnects here. I think this has the potential. To be a very good project for the county, for the residents here. But potential doesn't always relate to reality or to finished products. And I think looking past the TIA, what are the people – what's the perception of the people that are using that road and intersections every day going to be? And I am not convinced that it is represented accurately in the TIA. And the thought process of we're going to improve this from an F to an F plus. So it's really not going to be perceptional. But I think the last six months, anybody that goes up and down 522 between Winchester and Double Tollgate can tell you there's been a heck of a lot more truck traffic on that road. Now, maybe the level of service hasn't changed. But certainly the perception of congestion and aggravation has gone up significantly. And I wonder if we're – I don't know. We're doing enough transportation improvements and mitigation. And that section from the intersection at Fairfax Pike and 522 back to your furthest western exit or western entrance into your property, if that perception is going to be that, oh, we've improved this section. And I'm also concerned when you and VDOT start saying, well, you know, we think we can get it all in the existing right-of-way. What happens if you can't? The county doesn't have the ability – VDOT doesn't have the ability to go out there and condemn the properties and take the right-of-ways. The developer is really the only one that can get those. And if – I would like to see a firm commitment that you're going to make the improvements regardless of whether you think the right-of-way is available now or not. You're going to take the effort to get the right-of-way available and make the improvements. And I – I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I'm a little concerned about that whole verbiage and where we go from here because I – you know, I'm also concerned that, you know, what do we do tonight with this? So I don't see – well, I'll stop there. If I may, let me put some different numbers around this. So, again, I commend you for reading all of the traffic impact study as you, I'm sure, discerned the way that we do that in the industry. The way that we do that in the industry is that we run everything through the lens of intersection delay, right? That's what determines what the level of service is. We generate the trips, distribute them to the road network. We look at the intersection delay, and that's the lens that we're used to reporting it. You threw out some other numbers, so let me go through a few of the components in a little bit different way than they're laid out in the TIA. The TIA does mention that there were six other development projects. They're already on the book. They're already on the books. They're already approved, and they can happen regardless of what you do tonight and what the board does. Combined, those six developments generate 29,000 trips a day. Adding in growth over the next nine years, there is – obviously, a significant increase in the amount of traffic that will go through the double tollgate intersection, regardless of what happens on the Gibson property. That is why other traffic studies in the area and our traffic study show that do nothing on this property, there are still significant challenges at that intersection. Those other developments aren't fixing the double tollgate intersection. The Gibson – various other requirements – they have to carry lace sırt in place as the construction and any damage to the agreement. And there is a – one hasives at this point, the whole John boots thing, including the recycled its lettrelly. And that affects exactly what can happen. So within the hebtствixel of Margamaski through to Brus Messer, the last project they found to soup up the total traffic that's going to happen. That is almost 5% of the total traffic that is being addedату the road network. won't fix it completely, won't make it level service A. It is a constrained intersection. The same reason that the intersection is located in a different place today than it used to be, the constraints are, the footprint can be bigger, the constraints are less than in its old location, but it's still constrained. There's only so much we can add. The proffer says, we'll go ahead and make those improvements. We will more than offset the additional traffic that we're adding. We'll do the best we can at that intersection, and we'll do that. When it made sense, if you ignore those other six developments, and you just add in the one that's making the improvements, the Gibson property, 1.5 million square feet, made sense. We heard you. We'll take that out. When the county asks for it, when VDOT asks for it, we'll put those improvements in. You asked about perception. I don't have every one of the numbers memorized, but let's talk about the queue on the northbound left turn lane on 522 at Double Tollgate. Today, that's about a 300-foot queue, according to the analysis. There are certainly days when that's a longer queue, but again, all these numbers come from the synchro. They're all the same baseline, so relative to one another, they're a good measurement. Existing queue is 300 feet during the higher of the peak hours. If you add in those other six developments, that goes to 600 feet. The turn lane is not 600 feet long. If you add in the additional 6,000 vehicles per day for forgiveness, that's about a 300-foot queue. If you add in a full second lane, that queue goes to 655 feet. If you convert to dual lefts, change the way that the signal operates and add a full second lane, you're adding an additional lane of capacity, you're adding an additional lane of stacking, additional side-by-side lane for stacking, the length goes back down to a little less than 300 feet. So is it better than today in that isolation? Yes. That's better than today. Does that mean that there's fewer vehicles making that maneuver? Of course not. There's more cars and trucks making that movement. There's more pavement, and there's additional green time to process those vehicles in excess of what's being added, even by those other six developments that aren't contributing to these improvements. So that's why we say, when we say we are more than offsetting the impacts of this development, right, that's not the case. We're not offsetting the impacts of this development that we've already elicited, is this is really the послед stair を重要。 We've, there's two things here. When it comes toケーня, this is where we have all the county traffic. There's no chances here, there's no risk factors, right? In the county traffic 상황, again, with that large, with that wide area of surrounding AA hopefully in the species theゴ antes and some of them, the BC and some of them significant events it has the gegeben local vernacular. That's fighting through Badaua There's various degrees of that at shown in other traffic studies to be problematic. We wanted to make sure we addressed that. We're more than offsetting what we're adding. In fact, we're fixing the problem that is being added by all those other developments. So that's why in combination we think it's a good package of improvements. And again, we heard the concern about pushing them too far down the line, and so we moved those triggers up. Well, what happens if your statement that if it fits in the right-of-way, what if it doesn't fit in the right-of-way? Not, so it's certainly not an all or nothing thing. And not necessarily just the intersection at 522 and 277. Along 277, if the sections where you're constrained on the right-of-way, if the improvements don't fit in the right-of-way, what happens? So the... Only, so like if we look at the next one, entrance C, what you notice is that that new lane, so the south edge here, that edge line stays the same. We're not pushing the roadway to the south at all. We're pushing all of the improvements to the north side. All that light-shaded area, that's all the site. The yellow line, dotted yellow line, that's kind of hard to, admittedly hard to see on the white, is the anticipated... Right-of-way dedication. If for some reason there needed to be more, it's entirely within the applicant's control to make that happen. We would not get away with saying, sorry, we don't want to dedicate any more, so there's no available right-of-way. BDOT wouldn't let us do that. So you're saying on 277, you control all the right-of-way on the north side that's needed to make all your improvements? We control the right-of-way at this location. We control the right-of-way... At this location. You notice the edge here, right? There is, because of the location of the Lake Frederick entrance, trying to line up with that right at the corner of the property. If we needed additional space, and if you look really closely, Lake Frederick is coming right up to the off-site right-of-way line on their side, so they're pushing, they're not widening the roadway. They're not widening entirely on their side. They are slightly widening on the north side. We're inheriting that, so that's pushing towards that corner, towards this corner right here. And so if we were not to be able to obtain that, either we would have to talk about a change to the turn lane. Perhaps we could do a turn lane that's one foot narrower. BDOT has a range of turn lane widths. All of these assume 12-foot width, but you could build potentially an 11-foot wide lane if that were to help. Otherwise, we might be forced into going to an entrance location that is opposite of Madison 277. We could theoretically do it someplace else, but again, BDOT controls the entrance to the state highway. They have spacing standards. They wouldn't want us to do something that doesn't line up with one of the other existing entrances at that time. Okay. I need to get on to the public hearing. I'll give everybody else some time. Yep. Well, we need to get on to the public hearing as well. Mr. Kearns. A quick question. We spent a lot of time talking about 277. I'm surprised to see a new traffic light proposed on 522, which is, is that, I don't know if that's a BDOT question or an applicant question, but is there a different kind of regulations around that and requirements? Because 522 is a major, major, major, major, major, major, major, major, major, major, major, major, corridor. There's truck traffic. Two traffic lights within a quarter mile of each other and tractor trailers don't go well together. I live on 7, I know. Is that, I'm surprised to see that. It is actually farther than a quarter mile, which is the spacing requirement. It does meet the spacing requirement. You are correct in the fact that 522 is, has some other designations to it, right? It is a, I believe it's a corridor of statewide significance. It's certainly a U.S. highway, and it's an arterial preservation network element. That does make it a more important road and changes sort of the number of people and the grade at which they sit that we need to satisfy. So such a signal warrant would have to go to Richmond to be approved by VDOT's central office. I will let Mr. Johnson talk about anything he wants to on adding on to what that process is like. But, yes, it does carry additional consideration and scrutiny because it's on that corridor. Having said that, it's certainly quite possible to get a new signal on a corridor like 522. Do you have a fallback plan? Do you have a write-in, write-out fallback plan in case that's not? So not write-in, write-out, but sort of. The flavor of the day, if you will, is alternative intersection designs. VDOT pushes those very highly. And one of the ones that would work fairly well at this location is called a restricted crossing U-turn, an R-cut, where you would not have all of the left turns made within that box. If I was going to turn out and want to go north on 522, I would instead turn right. I would weave over to the median. I would make. I would make a U-turn and then continue back on 522. That has its own challenges for trucks. So that's why we would suggest maybe it's better just to put them all in the same box. That is for the signal justification report to evaluate all of those considerations and convince the decision makers as to what the best configuration would be. Okay. Thank you. Kevin, thank you. I need to move on to the public hearing. These folks have jobs and children to go to school and so on and so forth, sir. I like that. Mr. Whitaker, you got a quick question, sir? Yes, I do. We haven't talked a bit about the environmental impact on this thing. And I didn't see nothing on the map there showing where all the buildings, any containment ponds or anything to prevent any kind of runoff. We have a lot of waterways that have been blocked off into the Abrams Creek or Opecan Creek or the lake. And I must remind you, Virginia has listed the two streams as impaired waterways due to bacteria and sediment. And also our facilities, local facilities, have been faced scrutiny and fines under the regulatory systems like the EPA. So we don't want to get our county. I think the state is in trouble here. Have you all thought about putting any kind of containment ponds and pretreatment facilities so that we cannot impair these streams or Lake Frederick? I think the state requirements are going to kick in there, but you can answer that, Mr. Wilson. I'm pretty confident there are a lot of state regulatory requirements that go along with development. Okay. And one does a site plan. And we touched on this, I think, when we did the work session and there was some discussion about where the ponds were. And I think the young lady from Bowler Engineering spoke about that. But, yes, there are, and I'm sure you're aware, I hope you are, that there are numerous regulations that need to be complied with that deal with stormwater. Not only detainment, but also treatment. And, of course, we would have to abide by all of those regulations. Once you have a building and a parking lot and a design, you know how much water you have and how much you need to treat and how much you need to detain. All right. Now, who pays for that? The developer of the property. Okay. Now, is any of the grant money being used for that? In other words, taxpayers end up paying for it? Because that's what your grant money is. Again, the way the grant works is the developer pays. And then if, depending on... Say we're successful, there would be certain up to a maximum of, I believe, approximately a third that could be reimbursed from those eligible expenditures. But a lot of it, and actually there was a slide, it went through the infrastructure, the water, the sewer lines, the roads, things of that sort. I think what you're asking about is we're down the way a bit. We've got a... We've got a building, we've got a layout, we know where a parking lot is and where the stormwater will go and so on. I think that's well into the development process. And that's something that Peterson, in this case, would be paying for. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. As we open the public hearing, I'd like to acknowledge that we've received e-comments from the following people. Ralph Hosteller. Stephanie Green. Marv Davis. Denise McCourt. Chuck Buakima. Victoria Bullock. Stephen Heimowitz. Barbara Heimowitz. John Grefistet. Okay. Deborah Walco. Ralph Lowry. Nathaniel Pito. Leslie Spencer. And Peggy Newman. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. If you're here and intend to speak in addition to your e-mail, please contact us at 1-800-544-624-6222. If you're here and intend to speak in addition to your e-mail, please contact us at 1-800-544-622-622-622-622-622-7. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. If you're here and intend to speak in addition to your e-mail, please contact us at 1-800-544-622-622-7. Thank you, everyone. If you're here and intend to speak in addition to your e-mail, please contact us at 1-800-544-622-622-7. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. You're welcome to do so. However, we request you please first allow others the opportunity to speak. Then in the interest of time, you limit your statements and new information that you have not previously included in your written statement. And with that, I will open the public hearing to anybody who would like to speak to this item. I would ask you to come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Mr. Bishop? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe we have about 15 folks signed up so far. The first of those is Marv Davis of the Opecan District, followed by Liz Paldunas. Good evening. I'm Marv Davis, a resident of the Opecan District living in Lake Frederick. I'm also the chair of our community Gibson working group. So we've been working very, very closely with Mr. Gibson and Mr. Klein on this application to include two communities. We've had a number of community meetings at Lake Frederick with staff on both the comp plan as well as the application. Plus, we met this past Monday with Vita and Mr. Bishop. We're also looking forward to our next Lake Frederick community meeting in which Peterson representatives will be there and that's scheduled on October the 19th. So we've had a chance to briefly look at the new proffers late this afternoon, if you will. So we do appreciate and recognize that they've made some significant improvements, which we endorse. But we think there are still four areas that need additional work that impact our community. The first, and you've talked about it a little bit, is the mixed-use industrial office area, which is a very important area. We've had a number of meetings with the city of Michigan, which the applicant has been basically silent on. We think that needs some definition because both this commission and the Board of Supervisors have endorsed the importance of our UDA having a degree of self-sufficiency. And we think that this potential development certainly offers that and we'll talk about that in a little bit more detail. Thank you. Ms. Cosell, just like you mentioned that you think there needs to be additional improvements in the transition area, we endorse that. We think that needs some additional work. And notwithstanding the improvements in the transportation proffers that were provided this afternoon, Mr. Thomas, your comments both at the work center and at the local level, I think that's a great way to start the conversation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And tonight, you wrote my speech for me, if you will. Your concerns are our concerns, precisely. We recognize the potential value of what is being proposed here, but we need those retail and commercial kind of enterprises in the mixed-use area instead of us having to travel 5, 10 miles. miles down the road to obtain those. And last but not least, and Mr. Whitaker was getting at this, is the topic of this commission identifying noxious and non-compatible land uses with our residential areas. So we would appreciate it if you would table this application at this point in time and spend more time on these four deficient areas. Thank you. Next we have Liz Paldunas of the Opecan District followed by Mark Steffler. Good evening. I'm Elizabeth Paldunas, a resident of the Opecan District and Lake Frederick. My focus tonight is self-sufficiency for the Lake Frederick UDA and the neighborhood village, a goal of county plans. There are benefits to be had by locating goods and servicing the area. I'm going to start with the Opecan District. I'm going to start with the Lake Frederick UDA and the neighborhood village. There are benefits to be had by locating goods and services near concentrated populations like Lake Frederick, which will have more than 6,000 residents at completion. The right mix of businesses can reduce trips beyond the neighborhood and also foster community life. The first step to realizing the goal of self-sufficiency in our area happened in February when the Board of Supervisors approved the Madison 277 rezoning. Madison had proffered about 30 acres along the south side of Fairfax Pike for business and medical related uses. The set aside of those acres will allow for a healthcare facility and some other small businesses to locate in our growing neighborhood. The proposed rezoning of Gibson offers a second step towards self-sufficiency. The current long-range land use map clearly shows, with its red, white, and blue striping, acres of the Gibson property along Fairfax Pike that have been designated for mixed-use industrial office development. The plan is to create a new zone for the Lake Frederick UDA and the medical related uses. However, it is believed to be much faster than that of the new pact UDA. For more information about this plan visit Microsoft.com and the website 1000 euchairs. The plan is covered under Western So goodbye! It makes perfect sense toios the big M1 buildings behind high quality, architecturally interesting buildings at the roadside years. Better still, those good-looking buildings�can house a restaurant or two, a post office, a travel agent, or an apartment. agent or an indoor commercial recreation facility. All of these uses are allowed in the zone and they are businesses our community could support, potentially reducing trips across the county. Perhaps, best of all, we could have a welcoming entryway to southeastern Frederick County that reflects the beauty of the Shenandoah Valley. And I will add the renderings I saw this evening don't fit what I'm looking for. The applicant's request to rezone the Gibson parcels to M1 is a huge ask, particularly when the county is in the midst of revising its comp plan. Sadly, Peterson Companies has not gotten the message that mixed use along 277 is a requirement that comes along with its enormous M1 buildings. In fact, Peterson Companies has completely ignored the MUIO designation in the plans it produced. This proposal should be tabled until the applicant delivers project plans that fully comply with the county's long-range land use plan. We deserve a better defined M1 project that has softened impact on the surrounding neighbors. Thank you. Mark Steffler of Opequon District followed by Mr. Gary Porter. Yes, I'm Mark Steffler from Opequon District and also Lake Frederick. So you're going to hear a lot about what she said tonight. I wanted to focus on the M1 project and the M1 project. I'm going to focus on the M1 project and the M1 project. I'm going to focus on one specific thing, very detailed dive down that I've experienced. And so I'm going to talk about transition areas along the roadway. So we acknowledge and appreciate the developers already proffered the berms and some trees along the PIN 873B property. However, it's well known that when developers build landscaping burns in many communities, they frequently fill them with compacted construction debris and bury the trees too deep, creating expensive ice or vegetation graveyards. So I'm going to talk about that. And I'm going to talk about the M1 project and the M1 project. So I'm going to talk about the M1 project. So I'm going to talk about the M1 project and the M1 project. So I'm going to talk about the M1 project and the M1 project. So I'm going to talk about the M1 project and the M1 project. So I'm going to talk about the M1 project and the M1 project. We recommend the developer amend its proffer to use the best practices as follows. The berms should be constructed using a two-tier soil system. The structural core may utilize clean, compacted, native subsoils, free of trash and construction debris, asphalt, concrete, large rocks over three, four inches are toxic materials. The top layer across the entire planning must consist of a minimum of 12 to 18 inches of loose, high-quality screen topsoil, rich in organic matter, so, you know, trees and shrubs can actually grow, so that the berm will not erode over time. It must also feature a gradual, easy-to-water slope ratio of 4 to 1, 5 to 1, this ratio, with a gently rounded top. All trees should be planted with their root flares fully visible in strict accordance with the American standard for nursery stock standards, and there's all kinds of standards in there, backed by frequent watering during the first two years so that they may actually become established before they're going to die. So the developers should implement a three-tier soil system that is a good example of how to do this. A three-phase inspection process conducted by independent certified arborists or registered landscape architects, not the builder's own crew. These independent experts must first physically test the core for trash and overcompaction before it's covered, verify, secondly, that the topsoil of 12 to 18 inches is covered properly, and then audit the final planning depth to ensure that the root flares are visible. So we'd also like to see appropriate tree density as specified by the certified arborist, and a completion window of no more than one year after the tree is planted. So, we'd also like to see appropriate tree density as specified by the certified arborist, and a completion window of no more than one year after the tree is planted. So, we'd also like to see appropriate tree density as specified by the certified arborist, and a completion window of no more than one year after the tree is planted. So, we'd also like to see appropriate tree density as specified by the certified arborist, and a completion window of no more than one year after they break ground on that property. Whenever trees can be saved along the perimeter, about any 277 or 522, great. It'd be just prefer just integrate them into the berm. No reason to dig them up and redo a berm there. And we'd also recommend the county collect the appropriate amount of money and a bond to ensure these provisions are met. So that's one transition. The other one is the transition you're going to hear about repeatedly to make this transition between residential and hardcore industrial, right? So, in PEN 87A 16, we request that Peterson create land bays for pure M1 uses and a unique one for the designated mixed-use industrial office area. The latter land bay, approximately 30 acres as you've talked about, should have its own site plan to accomplish the Lake Frederick neighborhood gateway concept with Elizabeth covered. If possible, parking lots should be, of course, located in the interior of this area, and there should be appropriate landscape. along the runway, so, roadway. So those are my recommendations for transitioning. Thank you, sir. We have Gary Porter followed by Vicki Michaels. Mr. Porter. Good evening, everyone. I'm Gary Porter of the Opecan District. We understand why Frederick County needs to expand industrial development. Goes without saying. The county is growing. We've carefully reviewed the proffers being offered, and the submission for the Gibson property rezoning. However, the Lake Frederick community has a few requests. Specifically on proffer 2.7. While late breaking news at 310 this afternoon, I realize that there have been improvements in 2.7. What is still missing, though, is the timeline has accelerated. The current standard is 1.5 million square feet or more. We want to make sure that the construction is completed at the maximum capacity of 500,000 square feet. And, potentially, earlier, I'd like to lock down the timeline so that when the building capacity reaches 500,000 square feet and prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for that 500,000 square feet, that the proffers be completed and all the construction related to the proffers are completed. Tonight, there was great dialogue about the traffic studies, design, and the construction of the road. The project is still ongoing. I'm sure that the project will continue to improve. But, there's a lot of work to be done to make sure that the project is completed. I'm sure that the project will continue to improve. And, unfortunately, the project will continue to be completed. But, in any event, the question I have is, what if the right of ways are not in place? What then? What's going to be built? And there was some dialogue about that tonight. That's still kind of an open question. Also, there's a gap because there hasn't been a signal justification report. There's a gap because there's only been a TIA done. So, the number in the TIAs, those numbers have not been confirmed and collaborated by a signal justification report. So, take all this dialogue earlier for what it's worth, right? The other thing is that there's going to be a bunch of entrances and there's going to be a need for right of ways for that. And if, in fact, VDOT can't provide the right of ways for that, then who's going to provide the right of ways for that? Who's going to provide it? Is the developer going to take responsibility? That's not unclear to me at this time. So, the signal warrants analysis included in the TIAs are preliminary and they do not constitute an approved SJR. So, the application currently included in the transportation commitments do not currently include the transportation commitments necessary to support CIS. So, basically, the MVA is coming with the bringing back of Hazard Road seals. They're going to do the follow up approval of the town hall request, as we described earlier. But, although we're healthy and Gab enters Nej , right now. Wow. 1.5 million square feet. I had no idea the scope of the size of this. But I will remind you that they're wanting to rezone 244 acres of rural land to light industrial farm, industrial. Right now, we've got farmland, open land, habitats, and beauty. I've expressed my opinion regarding the Gibson project many times. I am happy to see that Peterson is finally coming out of the closet of who they really are. And since Mr. Lawson has taken it out of the background, I want to talk a little bit about their VED application. Under project scope, the project is purpose-built to address the structural... structural land accelerating displacement in northern Virginia's industrial market. In fact, they mentioned this displacement seven times in their application. Is this what you want? Because it sure isn't what your constituents have told you time and time again to say no to. From the application, what steps has your locality taken to support future housing? Frederick County has a pipeline of more than 7,000. residential units, either being built or in the process. And because we all know there is not a shortage of housing in our area, and we also know that your constituents don't want to be bombarded with their schools and other infrastructure not being able to support this. Application. How is the site currently used? Farmland and vacant land. Let's just think about that. How is the site currently used? 244 acres of land. The historical resource advisory board recommended denial of this request to rezone 244 acres. Is this a high-energy use facility? Has a developer answered your direct question and stated it is not a data center? Conceptual design and targeted uses reminds me of putting lipstick on a pig. Deny this request and protect 244 acres of rural land. Deny this request because the water and electricity constraints its build will put on the already constrained infrastructure. And finally, deny this request because the developer has already demonstrated they will not be good neighbors and don't respect you enough to even answer what they want to build. It's further emphasized by the fact that the proffers were received today and not provided prior to this hearing to the public. Do not provide them the opportunity to be the first company to attempt to see just how fail-safe our new non-name data center removal ordinance is. So whether they're trying to build a giant warehouse, a military spy site, or whatever it is, deny it because we just don't know what it is. Thank you, Ms. Michaels. Wendy Dorsey of Gainesboro followed by Susan Moore. Hello. I'm Wendy Dorsey from the Gainesboro District. And I want to say that I oppose the rezoning of this property. I oppose the rezoning of rural areas to industrial areas. I think we need to take better care of our farmland and think very seriously when we do change the zoning in those areas. The USDA said in 2025 the U.S. lost 2.5 million acres of farmland. In 2024, we lost 2.1 acres. Right now, as of 2026, they're expecting we're going to lose 1.9 million acres of farmland. I hope that at some point somebody realizes the value of farmland and decides that we need to take it more seriously and protect it. However, if you are going to build anything, if you're going to rezone on farmland, I would say, I would say that we, again, need to take it more seriously. At the last Board of Supervisors meeting, when we discussed, it was discussed about data centers being built or not. One person, one supervisor said, I feel like we've gone from one extreme to the other. And the answer is usually in the gray. And I generally agree with that. But when it comes to data centers, I don't. And while we're not being told that this is a data center, again, I'm not being told what it is. I can understand why the applicant has not provided a specific use for this and why they would not want to narrow the use for this. But what I also think is more important is that whether that serves the residents of Frederick County and that we should have a much better idea of what would be going in here. I'm concerned. I'm concerned that they have not provided a proposal for water and sewer demands. And, again, that they haven't been more specific with what will occur here. I encourage you to find out before anything is approved whether this is going to be a data center, a high-energy use facility, or a high-resource use facility. Finally, I would also say that if this goes through or anything else goes through, I think we need to look at our comprehensive plan. And our ordinances. But in terms of planting and buffer zones, I totally agree with what the gentleman presented. And I would also say we need to be more specific than a large caliper tree. My husband grows trees for his business. We have a wholesale landscape tree business. We generally don't sell trees until they're two inches in caliper. And I think Frederick County needs to get on board with that kind of choices as well. Thank you. Thank you. Susan Moore of O'Penn. O'Penn District, followed by Melanie Schneider. Good evening. I'm Susan Moore of the O'Penn District, and I appreciate the opportunity to speak. As a resident of Lake Frederick, one of the things that I have come to you about is to try to influence your thinking on land use. And perhaps targeted use. There are so many seniors at Lake Frederick. We now will have shortly 2,000, I believe, units of senior residents in an already very dense community. We are also surrounded by other dense communities going in, some of them even on the other side of 81. We drive a long way to go to the hospital. We drive. And we have either, no matter which direction we go, it's a long, long trip if there's an emergency. So one of the suggestions I'd like to make is to consider the great opportunity for the development of complexes for medical services. And I don't know whether the commission and supervisors have the ability to reach out to various medical service providers, May or May not. providers beyond Valley Health which of course would be a consideration for some which of course would be of consideration but perhaps even reach out to service providers like Johns Hopkins the Virginia Hospital Center affiliated with Mayo Clinic, Nova, Kaiser, etc. If you're looking at trying to use buildings that are small and medium-sized and large you could go from hospitals to doctors office complexes to all to pharmacies to all kinds of support services for the entire area. That's it. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. Thank you. Thank you. Melanie Schneider of Shawnee District followed by Paul Garst. Hi. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Melanie Schneider and I am an old citizen of the Cherokee Nation. My family are old settlers from the long hair clan and I've been told that my Cherokee relatives came to Winchester from the Chickamauga Cherokee lands to I am also a descendant of Joshua Whitaker, one of the original settlers of Frederick County. My mother still carries his name. She lives in Lake Frederick. I have been a resident of the county since 2001, and I am a homeowner in the Shawnee District. I have raised my family and invested my fortunes here. I have deep ties to this area, and I consider myself a steward of the land where I live and the community I live in, and to Wright's Run, which runs behind my home. And I am one of the thousands of people that you represent in our county. I fully understand the Gibson family wanting to profit off the sale of their land. Most people want to make money off of their investments, but their profits should not come at the expense of the peace and tranquility of their neighbors. The majority of people in the Shawnee District do not know what is happening in this meeting tonight. The ones that I have spoken to who are more informed do not want big industry to be a problem for them. If they do not want Amazon's Just as our state, we are looking at theawanIL court in Rheaton County that has open existing offices in our home. It will continue to offer very sfrm And replaced the 못ch Three autism had a recent community meeting to discuss the direction that they would like to see their districts moving, but Shawnee residents have not had any such meeting. I mention this because I would like to request that there be no zoning changes approved that will change the Shawnee district in such a dramatic way as this zoning change will. I request no changes until after our representatives have scheduled a meeting to talk with the Shawnee community about what we want. We have great ideas. Just ask us. How about a museum rather than a distribution warehouse? How about a sports complex or a GMU or UVA ecology research campus? M1 is not the only option here. There is a word in Cherokee, gadugi. It has special meaning for us. It means something along the lines of we all work together, but it means much more than that. It is the tradition where during times of need, the entire community comes together to do the work that needs to be done and works for the benefit of everyone. I kindly request that you vote no to this petition tonight and allow our community to come together and put gadugi into practice. We want to share our better ideas. Thank you. And I also want to thank you all for your work on the data centers that you guys have done, both the board of supervisors and the planning committee. Thank you. Mr. Garst? Paul Garst. Mr. Garst of Opecan, followed by Aaron Fox of Back Creek. Thank you for the opportunity. My name is Paul Garst. I'm a resident of Lake Frederick, retired physician, spent 30 years in the Navy. I'm torn, as I suspect most of you are. I love the rural nature of Frederick County, and yet I also recognize that much of the development around us has been an engine for the development of Lake Frederick. I love the development of Lake Frederick. I love the development of Lake Frederick. I love the development of Lake Frederick. I love the development of Lake Frederick. I'm a resident of Lake Frederick, and, as I was saying a cantsus that has driven a lot of the amenities that I also like a lot, and so I'm not totally opposed to this concept. etwa My concerns, however, are for and we've heard a lot of good things today, the new proffers, I guess is the right word. Our concern, however, however, is for things and slides and issues that we've heard about today that aren't captured in writing in the proposal, opening up to the people that are that really do benefit from . . . are those great things. And so, I want to say that there's no doubt that the productions performed by Patrick Morris and a lot of co-workers and friends that higher up in the public胡 football tradition have done extremely good work. I can't say they did very well this year, but I must of course be mothers to patients from North Dakota and in writing in the proposal and I'm concerned about issues that have been brought up by others in Lake Frederick that still needs some development and so I don't know where that leaves things I don't I hate to torpedo the whole concept because frankly there are probably some advantages for the community in this too and yet right now this instant I'd have to say it's not right not quite ready thank you thank you sir Erin Fox of Bat Creek followed by David Dixon of Stonewall Erin Fox Bat Creek District all right this area is marked for commercial industrial use on the comp plan however as I have said before our comp plan is way more than just our future land-use maps they have made a few concessions as a a, as of today in the 11th hour and that's wonderful but our land-use plan for this area actually calls for development that promotes a quote strong positive community image and it says it should be quote well designed with high quality architecture and site design this is all planned intentionally to quote further enhance the county's commercial and industrial areas and to provide focus to the county's future regional employment centers and just for reference the definition of that word enhance specifically for the city of Bat Creek and the county's future rural development centers and just for reference the definition of that word enhance is to improve or augment especially in effectiveness value and attractiveness so effectiveness value and attractiveness I don't believe that this application aligns with what our plan describes here we all keep hearing about our area being the fastest growing around I hope that we all understand that that's because we're highly desirable and for a lot of good reasons we don't need to just take any offer that we get we're willing to give up for development so do we really want to turn over 240 acres of our farmland for a possible million square foot warehouse that was mentioned the work session or should we save it for development that promises more high wage jobs per square foot more tax revenue quality architecture green spaces that help it blend in and much better buffer and transition zones like incorporating those mixed uses we've heard so much about that will protect the neighboring residences and small businesses these are not unreasonable requests we'll be the ones that will be left with this development for decades to come or more and remember we only have so much land so we need to be sure that each approval really is improving the effectiveness the value and the attractiveness of these areas just like in our relationships with other people maintaining our own standards and self-respect doesn't just benefit us it requires those around us to be better which puts them on a better path and it shows others that they don't have to compromise their standards either so we can set the precedent that leads this whole region to ask for more and in doing so protect it from becoming just another overdeveloped sad place that used to be abundant and beautiful so this goes without saying but I do refer you to all of the detailed suggestions and the ones that are still to come I'm sure from miss Spencer for ideas of what's possible here what the potential is plus we're in the process of rewriting the comp plan and this area is marked for particular attention I know that there are neighbors working on their vision for what they plan for it to be and they're going to contribute it sometime soon so with all of this said the few concessions that are offered the lack of alignment with the current comp plan the fact that we're currently updating this area with community input we're not wanting to or needing to compromise our standards and our limited land capacity I'm asking that you deny this request to rezone not just table it and I say that because it's natural that our goals don't align with a developer right they want a big net but that's exactly what we don't want and what we're not looking for and we don't have to accept thank you miss Fox David Dickson and the other two are in the same room. Thank you Miss Fox. David Dickson of Stonewall followed by Jessica Bowen. David Dickson Stonewall district I'm here to oppose the rezoning of Gibson property on September 23rd we were successful in putting a ban on data centers in place my concern is in the vagueness of the plans or lack of there this rezoning would impact an already fragile rural community in a profound way I don't want to see this become a roundabout way for data centers to sneak into Frederick County down the line I feel it's necessary to emphasize the lingering potential threat to County resources I can't believe it hasn't been brought up yet tonight I'm referring to the water and sewer numbers provided an application which mentions up to 1 million gallons of water could be needed for potential projects on the site let me say that again they say that they could need up to 1 million gallons of water it seems they are still trying to work data centers into the plans eventually but I hope that's not the case I cannot over emphasize the need to ensure measures that limit or prohibit any faculty that would draw from local resources in excess specifically impacts on the water table which is already being strained in many local areas by especially in the quarry activity in Stonewall district is especially vulnerable right now as residents are losing their wells to quarry blasting I know this hearing is not about the quarry but as part of the multi faced problem facing these communities I'm just asking you all to take other factors into consideration and really examine the impacts that rezoning and industrial development would have on the community until I'm confident that residents and their properties and resources are prepared to respond to the challenges that the community faces in the future and I'm sure we'll see the results in the next few weeks or so. protected urge you all to support to not support the rezoning Jessica Bowen of Shawnee followed by Alexander Ritter good evening hello Jessica Bowen from Shawnee first I want to say thank you to our planning Commission for asking such great questions at the working session I grew up on Fairfax Pike and just last year I moved back home to care for my family and work on new plans for a high-tech farm that I wanted to start on Fairfax Pike we were never aware of any plans for this area to be industrialized and this proposal has come as a shock to me and my neighbors several of whom have operational farms and homesteads in the area reading the application some of this has already been discussed now but I found that the applicants are pushing to rush this rezoning because our county EDA had submitted an application for a Virginia business ready sites program grant a request of just over ten million dollars Virginia state tax dollars which which is about a quarter of all of the grant money available from that program in our state this year, from what I understand. I submitted a FOIA request and received a copy of the grant application, which I can share with you all later. It frames this site as a refuge for industrial tenants displaced by data centers in other areas of Virginia. But earlier this year, John Jewell and the developers met with residents at Lake Frederick to discuss specifically building a data center at this site. This caveat of uncertainty is important here because on September 18th, the governor signed Executive Order 22, which directed that VEDP shall not provide business-ready sites assistance to any new data center project with an anticipated peak electrical demand of 25 megawatts or more. Also, side note that in the VEDP application, this site is listed at 3.25 million square feet of advanced manufacturing and industrial development upon completion. So, this grant application for this site budgets a $50 million substation. It lists the available natural gas capacity at 1,200 mscfh, reported as Washington Gas' capacity at an adjacent parcel that Peterson has under contract. That's enough gas to generate well over 100 megawatts of electricity, probably closer to 200. Valley Link North's proposed transmission lines also happen to align almost perfectly with these plans. It's also made possible by a construction site plan based on imagine gasplanes and mechanical ..." and … a large part of which would result in the Gothic plant on the north shore. This theory apoyoys for God�05 owners and meters whichkke specifically to a community, estate, or portion of those facilities where this might exist for textile neurone marketing purposes. In a manner of jump here, animals,buildings, or otheragęng expertise are estimated to reach Stories for Time, electricity, and Web course di suitable items. or half price to fuel sisnes are significant, and production supplies are important in this data center, and I'm happy that these East extra' digitalensions returning these problems require and that really it's worth a lot of effort. Visiting Csi's editor, voltar a wee bit about the disposit Пока HDавter nuans index of one thing, I really wish they我跟你講 would give us the ability to reach this context." allowed use in M1. With over 10 million Virginia tax dollars on the table here, which are not available to large-scale data centers, I don't think it's unreasonable for the applicant to exclude data centers in their proffers. This proposal would permanently alter the character of Fairfax Pike. The residents of Fairfax Pike, many of whom have been there for decades and have had land passed through generations for a century, have businesses, visions, and plans that should be included in large plans for this area. Thank you, Ms. Spelling. Alexander Ritter of Opecan, followed by Elizabeth Ehler. My name is Alexander Ritter, and I reside in the Opecan District. Tonight, you will be voting on whether or not to recommend approval of this zoning application to the board. As such, I urge you to consider what this project entails. But before that, I really want to thank you all for the questions that you guys have asked tonight. I've heard a lot of great things. Like you, I have my concerns. And there are a number of reasons why I believe the project as currently proposed is not appropriate. The most obvious reason, of course, is Peterson's refusal to proffer out data centers as an allowable use. While I understand that we have removed data centers as an allowed use in our ordinance, I urge you to be cautious about allowing them to move forward without proffering that specific use out of their application. If a future board wishes to allow them data centers in M1, or if my legal counsel is correct about the ordinance, then that use is not allowed. I urge you to be cautious about the ordinance, and if it is, then that use would be allowed. I further suggest that they should also proffer out other possible heavy industrial uses that do not belong. In reference to the conversation about warehouses earlier, the EDA and Peterson specifically mentioned logistics and distribution in their VDP grant application. I didn't see their presentation, but none of those targeted uses were also in that application. And I just felt it should be mentioned. I believe that Frederick County should only accept the best uses of land, so they should be allowed to use the land that is in the application. I believe that Frederick County should only accept the best uses of land, so they should be allowed to use the land that is in the application. I urge you to be cautious about the use of land, so they should be allowed to use the land that is in the application. And if they refuse to do so, the answer should be a simple no. There are also a number of other issues with the application itself beyond Peterson's refusal to proffer certain uses out. I noticed that there is no cap on building size. The traffic study that was commissioned assumed a size of 2.6 million square feet, but the proffers actually set no limit. In fact, the applicant's GDP sheet simply lists the standard M1 allowed maximum of 12.8 million square feet. Sure, they reduced height. But we really have no idea what the size footprint of the project's operation will be unless it is proffered. And that should be clearly addressed before we contemplate approval. Again, Peterson's application requests $5,225,000, but Frederick Water had noted that the line only has $60,000 per day left. Meanwhile, in the state grant discussions, VDEP asked what it would take to supply 500,000 gallons to 1 million gallons a day. Alongside that, the cost estimate sent to the state includes a $50 million electrical substation. It doesn't sound like your average industrial project or logistics hub. My question is, again, what are we even improving? Since so much time was spent talking tonight about traffic, I won't talk about it. Finally, my main concern is how this will affect residents living nearby. The minimal effort that Peterson has put into the proffers and their arrogance at the previous work session gives me no reason to believe that they will be a good neighbor. We also, once again, do not... have a clear indication of who the end users will be or what specific uses will be allowed. There is nothing here binding how an end user would operate or what they will do. My suggestion is to defer action, table, or deny this project until the applicant provides a complete and comprehensive answer to the questions the project itself raises. Thank you. Thank you. Elizabeth Ehler, who I think we might have lost unless she's hiding behind the pole over there. That brings us to Mr. Krieger, Kirk Krieger of Bat Creek. And that's our last one signed up, Mr. Chairman. Good evening, folks. Kirk Krieger, Bat Creek Magisterial District. I came before I saw the revised proffers. I want to recognize that there has been some movement there. And I routinely attend the EDA board meetings. The EDA... has a strategic plan. And it is a desire for a new industrial park in the county. So they rolled out the welcome mat. Unfortunately, the county appears to be a doormat in some instances. And I urge you not to fall into that trap. In essence, the county is a fiscal agent for $10 million for this project. You can ask for a lot more than just some proffers. And I urge you to use that leverage wisely. You've heard about... my prior concern about the use of matrix... the use matrix allowed in M1. Power generating facilities? Not a problem. Storage batteries and primary battery manufacturing? Not a problem. Those ought to be proffered out if they're not going to be essential to the use. And I recognize that Peterson wants as wide a marketing window as possible to fill up their property. But it creates too much uncertainty for noxious uses that could be... for noxious uses that could be... actually detrimental to the county. I do want to reinforce the conversation that Frederick Water had. One of your members here is a liaison to Frederick Water. We've already heard that there's 60,000 gallons a day available after Madison is accounted for, after Lake Frederick is accounted for, after the adjacent mobile home park is accounted for. That doesn't appear to be enough for this project. So you have an essential infrastructure shortfall. There's no proffer that deals with water. You can't understand how you got through the study session where that became public and widely known, and it's currently not addressed at all. So I think that this is not ready for prime time. I urge you to consider these points carefully and to recognize that you have more leverage than you normally do in a particular project. And that because you are the fiscal agent through an instrumentality for which the Board of Supervisors appoints the EDA Board, you have a higher calling to make sure that you have a transparent, transparent business relationship here. Thank you very much. Thank you. That was your last speaker signed up, Mr. Chairman. Would anyone else like to speak? Yes, ma'am. Come on up. State your name, Magisterial District. Penny Smith Opekin, and I'd like to thank you for receiving the things I sent to you. I appreciate that a great deal. Thank you for sending them. I don't have a lot of words. I have the word big, mega, and I have the word domino effect. I concur with what Jessica and Alex said. I have read those same statements. They spoke quickly because there was so much to say. Big, huge. The scale of their building, they say, at the developable acres, the scale necessary it would be, the scale necessary to accommodate high footprint, high bay industrial facilities in the 300,000 to a million square feet. Thank you. For building, not all the buildings together. This is a humongous undertaking. The speakers I referred to pointed to the electrical, the water, the impact. My background is in health, so I'm always looking at that. They're talking about mission critical. That sounds exciting. Highly polluting. PFAS. So my thing tonight is to urge you to look at the sheer scale of it. And then they make a statement that this amount of data, this amount of building space, is increasingly difficult to find in competitive mid-Atlantic markets. All over the mid-Atlantic. So you take this rural place on the doorstep of 7,000 people, and we're going to be the biggest in the mid-Atlantic. There is an extreme disconnect there. And to go from rural to, I thought it was mixed-use light industrial in the past. Peterson developer has to have M1 to proceed, of course, we all know that. But they don't stay there. Big, big, big. Big to build. Big impact on the people. Big amount of suffering. Big footprint from them. They use that thing. The scale that they're building, is similar health effect to data center. Infrasound, no matter how I Google it, infrasound and mega-scale development. Yes, yes, yes, I always get. If you build, but I think it's wrong to build, infrastructure can be minimized from the ground up. Later too late. Please consider these things. Thank you very much. Leslie Spencer, Gainsborough. I strongly oppose. I have some pictures for you tonight. Thank you. Okay, I also wrote an e-comment that stated a lot of the fact that stated a lot of the facts in that paper too, but I really wanted you to see the pictures. I think that these 244 acres may be one of the most beautiful job campuses we will have. This could shape our role and job culture for decades. I was answered 2013 was the last time this SOFRED was studied where the community gathered together as a whole in a fire hall, not amendments. That makes me especially dedicated to giving our community the best stewardship we can. I can already see beautiful walkable vision very close to what SOFRED describes. One blue industrial color on a map can represent radically different economic futures. Industrial absolutely means jobs, but those could be high-wage headquarters, research campuses, warehouses, or even a wooden toy factory. I don't see berms. I see human-scaled walkables. I see a walkable edge with cafes, small businesses, and behind it, low-rise, stunning campuses woven through trees and open spaces, headquarters, professionals, with Lake Frederick, Chirando Park, and Aylor Middle School nearby, jobs, trails, green spaces, and everyday destinations that could blossom into a really beautiful community. Major employment can also be great architecture, landmarks, and our IAEA. And that also supports tourism, the views, aerials, and sense of place while creating places residents and employees themselves want to enjoy. I just keep thinking, if this is one of our big chances to bring residents closer together, more landmark campuses, and diverse jobs we keep saying we want in the UDA, why would we possibly risk it? Where are all those other parcels, comparable to this one? I think we should treat this land almost like a long-range investor would. Hold on to its highest potential. Be patient and make sure what comes here fits the community even better than we can imagine today. All good development is built to its site and sings a local song. I really believe this could become a sustainable campus Frederick County is super excited about. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anybody else that would like to speak? Seeing none, I will close the public hearing. Mr. Lawson, would you like to respond to any of the comments that have been made? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and just briefly, do appreciate the comments, but more to the point, appreciate the opportunity to have a work session with you all, and also the public hearing tonight. Appreciate your comments, and we've actually had conversations not only with staff, but many of you also, one-on-one, to allow us to refine the proffers and respond to the comments. We're certainly very excited about the grant program. It's a unique opportunity. And we're pleased that this county is involved with that. Certainly, we look for your support, but what we're really looking for is your recommendation, as was mentioned at the beginning of Mr. Klein's presentation, to the Board of Supervisors. So, thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Klein, would you like to summarize? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. We covered a lot. We covered a lot of issues this evening. If I can summarize the things I feel like are still outstanding based on your conversations, concerns with water were raised late in the Planning Commission discussion. There's still the outstanding issue of Proffer 2.7 and the feasibility of those proffer transportation improvements and what may be able to be accommodated within the existing right-of-way or what may be able to be accommodated if the right-of-way isn't sufficient given those proffer improvements. There's lingering questions and comments about the building design and kind of the compatibility and harmony with the surrounding Lake Frederick UDA. And then, of course, the use issue remains a central issue noted both in the Planning Commission comments and in the citizen comments. This is, again, a rezoning from RA to M1 for 244 acres, and we are seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors as one of many actions that you can take this evening. So, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. I have a question. I have a question. I have one question. Mr. Bishop, maybe you can help me. Sir. Mr. Thomas, he's been here since Moby Dick was a minnow. He tells me the name of the planning director who was in your seat back when this property was identified as industrial, which would have been about the time I graduated from high school. Yeah, right. Roger doesn't believe that one either. But maybe in the early 80s. 35? About the same time as the inland port was coming around. I'm guessing that was the catalyst for what was going on here. Is that, do you have any historical knowledge of how the land plan got to where it is over the last 45 years? Maybe Mr. Pearson does. Mr. Klein actually researched this for us. I believe he found it first in 2008, Tyler, which technically, I think that was still under Mr. Lawrence's tenure. So, not quite while you were in high school. No, no, no. I think it was sometime back. Yes, sir. Okay. All right. So, it's been a while. It's not something that just happened recently. Yes, yes, sir. Okay. All right. Thank you. And maybe the documents don't show it, but it was John Raleigh back in the late 70s, early 80s, but, you know, maybe not formally addressed. But it's been around a long time, and the potential has been there for people to buy it and do whatever they wanted to. And, you know, unfortunately, I wish it would stay a farm, but farming isn't the most profitable. I mean, it's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a practical and most profitable endeavor right now. Plus, it's probably one of the hardest things next to coal mining that anybody can do. So, yeah. Okay. This is a time for planning commissioner discussion. So, I'll start to my left. Would anybody like to make any statements, say anything, add to what we've heard? Okay. I guess I'll step out first. All right. Thank you. Thank you. I do want to thank, to be honest with you, I'm pretty torn. You guys have, and with VDOT's comments that I saw from letters that were written in July and August, there has been a dramatic move to try to address the issues that were presented both in our work session and all the way up to negotiations that happened until 2.30 this afternoon. So, I do appreciate that fact. And I'm also appreciative of the fact that potentially we will not have a fair deal of time until the end of the year. So, I'm going to take a few minutes to wrap up. I'm going to take a few minutes to wrap up. And they are just some of the things that we have to be aware of. The fact that we have not only have just a stop sign coming out of Lake Frederick, we have the potential to have a stoplight. And for us 55 and older folks trying to pull out on a 55 mile an hour road and make a left hand turn against traffic, a stoplight will be a lot safer for everybody. And I think about one-fourth to one-fifth of Lake Frederick residents will probably use that 277 entrance that at some point will go in. So. appreciative of the fact that you did stay and keep your side of the intersection across from the stop sign there and I do appreciate the fact that you work with Mr. Johnson and Revise some of the language that I think got everybody a little bit closer I Will address the water and sewer I know there is no proffers for water sewer, but the Mr. Lawson and the Peterson group is very very familiar with what's going on there and the fact that we have a force main that has limited capacity left and That if they go over that capacity then it's up to the developer to figure out a way to get at the parkins mill There there is enough water for what was proposed I don't think you're even anywhere near that hundred or a million gallons that was originally State a long time ago Because there's no way a million gallons can turn around into thirty five thirty thousand or sixty thousand gallons of sewage so But there has been meetings with Frederick water. And so I think Everybody is fully aware of what it would take if this property were to get rezoned and developed What would happen on both the water and sewer side? And I do recognize it was great here and a lot of the chance. I know we spent a lot of time on transportation I Had questions after the last work session and we talked afterwards and I appreciate the fact he came out here and really explained everything to us and I Think I all of us have an insight has to what you're trying to do. So But again, I am very torn. I think we made a lot of progress I'm Not quite sure we've gotten all the way we need to be but we have made some progress Thank you Any other comments? MOF yep, mr. Marco Yeah, I've heard a lot of reasons that say we haven't yet made the progress that we really need to make on this project to define it. But at the same time, we're in a position where we really need income from jobs and everything we can do to make more jobs out there, the better, because we have population coming no matter what we do. And I'm not willing to. Say, go ahead with it just because there's a $10 million gift in the offing when there's so many things still unknown. Now, we can't really ask a developer to tell us who is going to be there before someone said they want to be there. I mean, you got. You've got to go out and find the customer. You've got to find someone interested in being there. So it's this conundrum of how much can I put in place before I'm allowed to do anything and not having anybody interested in it. It's a problem. And I'm inclined to. Say. We need to find some more information. Maybe not all of what what you all have asked for and made your point that it is all. Necessary before we say go ahead. There's always there's always a risk. But I'm I'm inclined to table it. Any other comments? All right. I agree. I'm long way. Excuse me. I agree that we've come a long ways, but we have a lot. We need to really perfect this thing. Be more Pacific. And I have to agree with you, Mr. Marker, there were a table this and do some more work. Thank you. Mr. Green. Thank you. Likewise. I think there needs to be some more work that needs to be done to tighten us up. I'm all about a new industrial park. We need it. Excuse me. My question to folks are who here has the right to tell a farmer that he is bound to his property. He's bound to $60,000 a year and he's not authorized to sell his property. That that's a pretty bold statement. Yes. We want to. We want to keep as much of the county rural as possible. But if we're looking at the comp plan and we're looking at areas designated for light industrial, we can't tell an owner of a property that he can't sell. And then it's our responsibility and the board's responsibility to decide who will build there. I appreciate Peterson. You guys have done a great job. You've come a long way. As several folks here said, we do need to tighten up on some things. So thank you for your hard work. And, you know, we want to keep the county rural. But on the other hand, we've got to let property owners be able to do with their property what they would like. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anybody else to my right? Mr. Kearns. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would agree with a lot of the comments that have been made. This is a prime plot of land. This is not tucked away in some warehouse district somewhere. You know, this is not some industrial area somewhere. This is 277 and 522. This is visible to lots and lots of people. There is residential growth that's happened in that area since this area was developed. I really hesitate to have a lot of people. Thank you. But has this === feet, but I still think 45 feet is still way too high and allows too many uses in there that is not going to get what we want that's going to be roadside and frontage along there. And then my last little comment is, I don't know if anybody else caught this, but I did make the comment last time, and we have had several comments about the native species and the importance of native species, that where they put in here in the PROP for 1.3, where they would have at least one Virginia native variety of deciduous tree, one native evergreen tree, and one native variety shrub, which to me, that's just placating. You can plant a thousand total plantings, right? And there's, let's say there's, you know, 400 trees, 400 deciduous trees and 300 evergreen trees and 300 shrubs. You can print, you can literally with this verbiage plant, one single native tree, one single native evergreen, one single native shrub, and have 997 other Chinese plants, you know, whatever from around the world, cheapo things that are planted in there. I was very unhappy to see that, and I would like to see that verbiage changed. But those are my comments. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Ms. Gozell. Yeah, real quick, I just want to say thank you for the work you guys did. I know you tried to hear us, but I just want to say thank you for the work you guys did. I know you tried to hear us, but I concur with everything everybody has said here. I'm still torn. There's still the use with the market studies that we know, the industry that's going to come to this area. I would just love if we could be a little more specific on the uses and see that transition area. But thank you for your time. And before I ask Mr. Thomas for a motion, I will say I appreciate you working with us and bringing this as far. Thank you for your time and everything that you do for us and , but I would like to say a couple of words of consideration. So you had the opportunity. I was there. It's veryおい白 and you have some great comments on over homeUs and down the road here. I'm paint 7 you just talked about how you operate a lot more. What's what's the adaptation of what you appropriate to�� appoint persons who April 1 strict you know, perpetissance, accident, is there any Dogs certs out in this area or is there any. això saying this has been part of the plan. This is what the comprehensive plan generates. So if you want to be involved in a comprehensive plan process, I want to encourage you to do that. We have various ways to do that through online mechanisms and through meetings that we have in person. And this is how we plan where this type of development goes in the future. And we're planning 20 years down the road when we do the comprehensive plan. It's a long-term plan. So just be aware this isn't a one-time shot. We need to hear from you more frequently. So that's the advertisement for the comp plan update. With that, this is in the Shawnee District. So I'll turn to my Shawnee commissioners and say, sir, what would you like to do? Well, again, first I'd like to also thank the presentation, the presenters. I think this is a great opportunity for us to be able to have a conversation with the commissioners that answered your questions and put together a good attempt. I think this has the potential, and I will say again potential, to be a very good project for Frederick County, for the residents in the area, for all the residents of Frederick County. That area down there has been looked at for 40 years as being a place for potential industrial development. Part of that was because of the inland port and 522, and the transportation system there. So I think there's a lot of potential there. However, I'll also say I think there's a lot we have to still do. Now we do have a bylaw that says if we receive revised proffers the day of the meeting, we're supposed to, or we have the ability to table it. I'm not sure at this point. We really have three options. We can table it. We could recommend approval. We can recommend denial. And I'm not too sure. I'm not totally convinced that tabling it gets us anything. The developer has had time to listen to what we've said, what the community said, and what we see tonight is a movement. There's certainly been improvement. But how many times are we going to table it to try to get where we want to go? I think the developer and the presenters certainly should understand where we're coming from at this point. I'm not sure there's much more we could say that would change their mind to modify something. So I'm not sure where we go on that. There's four areas that really concern me. The mixed use, the transition area in the front. And I understand there's constraints on that. There's already 60 acres down there that's for potential commercial retail in Lake Frederick area. How much more can be absorbed into the community and how much more is required? We have enough empty commercial facilities sitting around the campus. In Lake Frederick County, do we want more empty commercial facilities sitting down there in 277? I don't think so. Transportation issues. There's certainly been a long way or a lot of progress on the transportation issues. But I'm not sure we're there yet. I'm still a little confused on what happens if it doesn't fit in the right of way. So I think there's potential there. I can't read my own writing. Water. I think that needs to be addressed. The sewer. And aesthetics. I'm an engineer. I'm not real concerned about aesthetics. But I know a lot of people that drive by it every day would be. So considering all that, I'm not sure we're going to make any more progress by tabling it. It's not where I would consider acceptable to go to the board to recommend approval. So I'm looking at my last option is I'm going to make a motion to recommend denial and make that motion to the board. That does give the applicant time between now and that board meeting to make revisions. And if he can make revisions acceptable to the board and get it in front of them and be successful, then his application can go to the four-lettered agency to get their $10 million. So I move that we recommend denial of application. REZ 0826. Okay. We have a motion. Is there a second? A second. We have a motion and a second. Okay. Is there any discussion? To my right? To my left? Any discussion? I beg your time. Okay. The motion we've all heard is for denial, recommendation for denial. Mr. Whitaker, can you start us a yes vote as agreement with denial? Whitaker, yes. Crane, yes. DeHaven, no. Kerrins, yes. Kozo, yes. Thomas, yes. Markert, yes. Snitton, yes. Ballturf, yes. McKay, yes. Brombeck, yes. LaMina, yes. Chair votes no, and the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on October the 28th. I want to thank everyone for coming out, for staying so late. We know you have jobs. We know you have children. You go to school, so on and so forth. Thank you very much. Any other questions? We'll have some questions. Mr. Blanck, do you have any questions? Mr. Blanck, no. Mr. Blanck, no. Mr. Blanck, no. Mr. Blanck, no. so forth. Thank you very much. Mr. Bishop, is there anything else we need to do? No more actions tonight. I'll give you a quick summary of items. To tag on your item regarding the comprehensive plan, and admittedly somewhat defensively, there was a meeting in Shawnee District for your current comp plan update, and frankly, Shawnee District has had more in-person opportunities than any other district, because we also had a series of six meetings at Bowman Library where I talked to the planner. That said, the most important point is that, as you have noted, the comp plan update is ongoing. The interaction opportunities and feedback opportunities for the public are ongoing, and there is going to be yet another round of public in-person meetings as we are coming out of drafts, so we look forward to continuing to work with the entire community. Now, with that said, you also have a number of items coming before you on October 21st for comprehensive plan amendments for AMK properties, BHS property, KSS LC property. Those are all in the vein of preservation. You have also a comp plan amendment from Carmuse, Lyman Stone. You have battery storage potential ordinance amendment coming to you October 21st, as well as CUP for the formally revoked firehouse LLC CUP. So that one is coming at you as well. And finally, I would note in terms of items we've recently gotten, we have been, as I noted previously, working with the Battlefields Foundation for a potential down zoning of some land that they have already in preservation that they're looking to take the zoning off of in Stonewall Industrial Park. Should that go through, that would actually remove your one piece of TM zoning in the county, as well as a portion of B2. And we also have a site plan going through the works for the Inn at Valcluse, which is one I know folks are interested in as well. That's about all I have to update you on, unless you have any questions for me. Is the land you mentioned, the Shenandoah Valley Battlefields, is down zoning? Is that the piece up on Martinsburg Pike? That's correct. Up that way? Okay. Any questions for Mr. Bishop? I'd be glad to entertain a motion for... Let's get out of here. So moved. So moved. Okay. All in agreement, say aye. Aye. Have a safe trip home. Thank you. Thank you.
