Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2021-01-13
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=76
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Number four is the organization of the Board for 2021. They're Election of a vice chair. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman? Yes. I'd like to nominate Mr. Douglas McCarthy as vice chairman. Further nominations? Mr. Chairman, I would like to nominate Mr. Robert Wells. All right, sir. Further nominations, anyone? All right. Figure a way to proceed. So why don't we just go down the row and select one? Does that work for everyone? Okay. Supervisor Stegmaier. Which one are we voting for? Vice chair. Vote for the one that you would prefer. Oh, I see. Name the person. You name the person. I got you. I probably, okay. Got you. Yes. Supervisor Wells. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. Supervisor McCarthy. Outstanding choice. Well done. Supervisor Slaughter. Supervisor Wells. Thank you. Supervisor Wells. Supervisor Wells. Excellent choice again. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. McCarthy. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Graver. Mr. McCarthy. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Chair, we'll have to vote for Supervisor... Supervisor Wells. So Supervisor Wells will be our vice chairman again for 2021. Adoption of rules of procedure. How would the board like to handle that one? Mr. Chairman, I would move that the board adopt the rules of procedures originally adopted by the Frederick County Board of Supervisors on May 28, 2003 and amended July 8, 2020 with the addition of Section 1-12, the remote meeting, the meeting participation policy originally adopted by the Board of Supervisors on March 25, 2020. I further move that the board adopt Robert's Rules of Order, simplified and applied. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt them as presented. Selection of a parliamentarian has traditionally been our county administrator. How would the board like to handle this? I would like to see the board adopt the rules of procedure. Mr. Chairman, I would move that the board elect the county administrator as parliamentarian. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. Duly noted. County administrator will be our new parliamentarian. Selection of time placed for the regular meetings. Mr. Chairman, I would move that the second and fourth Wednesdays of each month at 7 p.m. in the Board of Supervisors meeting, County Administration Building 107 North Kent Street, Winchester, Virginia, be the time and meeting place for the Frederick County Board of Supervisors for 2021, with the exception that the second meeting in November and December not be scheduled because of conflict with the holidays. I further move that should a meeting be canceled due to inclement weather, it will take place on the following evening. Second. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. So adopted. Chairman's annual committee assignments and citizen member assignments, I will get those distributed in the next few days, hopefully. Organizational and motions, I think that that is taken care of. Adoption of the agenda. How would the board like to treat the agenda? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Wells. I would move that. I would move to amend this motion to add to our agenda item 9D, which would be under county official authorization for the county administrator to execute contracts with E.F. Johnson slash J.V.C. Kenwood and mission critical partners for the procurement of a public safety radio system and related services. Upon the public safety radio commission staff working group, finalizing those negotiations with E.F. Johnson, J.V.C., Kenwood and mission critical partners of contacts for the public safety radio system and related services. All right. So you have the motion to adopt the agenda with the amendment of adding item 9D. Is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. And a second. Is there a discussion? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. So, Mr. Wells, this is not part of the consent agenda. This is a separate, standalone vote and discussion. Is that correct? That's correct. Okay. Thank you. Yes. Other comments? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Grigg. I mean, I'm sorry. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, this motion was made at a prior meeting, and we postponed it for the next meeting. So, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. Chairman, we postponed that vote. We were on that agenda of a prior meeting. We postponed it for staff to take a look at some questions that we had. I believe this body unanimously consented to have those things looked into. As far as I know, those things haven't occurred yet. In addition, the policy of this Board is that if something is to go on the agenda, that it should be submitted prior and the week prior, so that it can be on the agenda and considered by the members before they arrive at the meeting and have, what, 10 or 15 minutes it so I will oppose adding it for that reason this is a 30 odd million dollar project that we're considering to add it to the agenda at the last minute I think is inappropriate thirdly I would say that on the agenda this evening we had a proposed closed session to discuss some events surrounding this proposal and three of the supervisors that sit behind this desk requested that meeting three of the supervisors who represent one half of all of the citizens of Frederick County asked to have a discussion with our County Attorney relative to information that we received with regard to some legal challenges that were communicated to the attorney and we showed up at 4 o'clock many of us took off time from work to be here at 4 o'clock to take food out of the mouths of our children so that we could be here to serve our community and we weren't given the courtesy of being able to go into the closed session to represent our constituents to have those questions answered to have that discussion discussed with all of us in the same room with the County Attorney in the three years three and a half years I've been on the board not once I'm proud to say have I ever voted against allowing any member of our board to discuss a concern that they had not once have I ever intentionally missed a meeting even when I had other things that I'd already made up my mind on some things but I still came and I listened and I sat and I listened to what they said and I heard it and I listened to what they said but I still came and I listened and I sat and I listened to what you all had to say. And I'm disappointed. It seems to me that this country has come to a point where people make up their minds. They don't care what anyone has to say. They don't want to hear the other side. And whether you agree with them or not, let's at least sit down and talk to each other and hear each other out. You may not like what they have to say. You may not even like the way they say it. But at least let's talk, because we're all elected to represent the constituents in our community. And when you box us out and you don't allow us to have the discussion, this is the third time in one year where at least three members of this body who represent 50% of the citizens of this county have asked to have the courtesy of an executive session so that we can discuss something that we can't discuss in public because it's a legal matter. We're boxed out and our voices are silenced and so are our constituents. I'm disappointed to say that we all showed up here this afternoon with this on the agenda and four of you voted to not allow that conversation to happen. I will vote against this being on the agenda, Mr. Wells. I think it's inappropriate and it's unfair. Other comments, anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would concur with Supervisor McCarthy's comments. Being my district would be the only district in this whole entire radio system that has the possibility of being disenfranchised by a system not being the same as the remainder of the system. One part of the system could be analog, which would affect my residents, and the other part of the system could be digital. To not have the opportunity to have discussion, to have the threats made to this board that we received, and not have the opportunity to discuss it is, as was mentioned, very distasteful. I do believe, as Mr. McCarthy has stated, that we should allow this committee to still address the questions that were brought forward. I still have some questions that I would like answered by the committee, and I believe, as Mr. McCarthy mentioned, that there was agreement by this board that the committee would meet, the communications committee is what I'm speaking of, and address those questions. So I would appreciate the common courtesy and respect of, as was stated, half of the county, residents, to have the opportunity to have a look at those concerns and have answers prior to a vote. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. A year ago, I know we're starting a new situation, but a year ago, you had requested that any new information be done by Wednesday on the preceding week. As Mr. McCarthy said, this is a new piece of information. I think that everyone should have the opportunity to know this on the agenda. The public needs to know this on the agenda. I think this is inappropriate to go and be put on at this point in time. The committee was meant to go back and look for some further information. That's not been done, to the best of my knowledge. If this passes, then I'll make some comments at that time. If this does not pass, then I'll make some comments during supervisor comments. But thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is wrong. Thank you, sir. Further discussion, anyone? I'm going to accept the motion. Is there any further discussion? Supervisor Graber? No. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? No. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That'll bring us to citizen comments, agenda items. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Bates? No, sir. No signup. Consent agenda. How would the board like to handle a consent agenda? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. I heard the motion. Is there a second? Consent agenda, second? I'd second, Mr. Chairman. Discussion, anyone? Any discussion? Any discussion? All those in favor, aye? Aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no? No. Duly noted. Roll call because there's money involved. Now it's my fault. Thank you, sir. So moved. Okay. Option of the consent agenda, Supervisor Graber? No. No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries, one nay. All right, we'll adopt the consent agenda as presented. Board of Supervisors comments, are there any? Chairman? Supervisor McCarthy? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got two comments. One, I mentioned earlier at our joint EDA Board of Supervisors meeting that currently the Department of Labor and Industry has announced a draft permanent standard relative to industry's safety protocols for mitigation of COVID. Back in July, I believe it was July 27th of 2020, the original protocol. The protocols went into place, and these are measures that industries are required to take. So it's sort of like OSHA, but in Virginia. These protocols, on January 27th, the Department of Labor and Industry want to make what was a temporary protocol become a permanent protocol, despite the fact that vaccines are now being administered, and we're hopefully moving in a better direction than we have been up to this point. Many business owners in the community have contacted me personally and expressed. Some concern with this. Our EDA expressed concern with this, that it doesn't make sense to have the idea that this may not be a permanent pandemic, but yet have permanent regulations that would burden businesses and the employees who work in those businesses, especially in light of the fact that CDC information continues to change. And this OSHA regulation, or the Virginia version of the OSHA regulation, would not allow for us to adjust to meet what the CDC regulations may have from time to time. So I think that's a good point. It seems to be an unnecessary step to take. We could do another six-month or 12-month temporary policy, but it seems that the governor is intent on moving it forward and making it permanent. The thing that disturbs me the most is anyone that's interested in going and looking at the regulation. It's the Virginia Occupational Safety and Health Program, Virginia Department of Labor and Industry proposed regulation for infectious disease prevention of the SARS-CoV-2. The thing that's really disturbing is the tradition in Virginia is that whenever a regulation is passed, an administrative regulation is passed, the public has the opportunity to comment on the regulation. And any time a change or an amendment or an extension of a regulation is passed, that the public has time to comment publicly on the regulation so that our government can hear from the people. And as Supervisor Stegmaier said, the people are the government. We are supposed to be a government of the people, by the people, and for the people, all the people. And this regulation proposed actually has lines striking through the clause that would require public comment to be had before there's an amendment or an extension of this, which means that our government by fiat can decide that they're going to impose additional regulations upon the people without the input of the people. It's contrary to the tradition of this country. It's contrary to common sense. I will be preparing. I'm preparing a letter to be sent to our governor. I would ask that each of you sign off on that with me. This goes into effect on January 27th. Unfortunately, our next meeting isn't until January 27th, so we'll be a few hours too late to pass a resolution to stop it. But I think I will still bring forward a resolution admonishing our government for taking this step, asking them to rescind it and make it a temporary order rather than a permanent order. I would encourage you all to support me on that. And if you have business owners in your districts that would like to join, I would encourage them to contact me. I'd be happy to make as many signature pages as we need to add to that letter to go down to Governor Northam sometime next week. That's my first supervisor comment. My second supervisor comment. I had a very productive meeting yesterday with the new president of the NAACP, Michael Faison. We had a discussion regarding the Juneteenth question as far as whether we should be celebrating that. It's a holiday and I asked Michael if he could assist me in putting together a town hall meeting that I'd like to invite all of you to as soon as I have a date to discuss and get everyone's perspective. Contrary to what this board did tonight, I think the more we discuss things and the more we have conversations as a community and as a group, the better the decisions are for all of us. I want to encourage us to have a robust discussion about this topic. I want to encourage us not to continue this third shutting down of the three minority groups. I think the board is going to be very, very busy. I think the board is going to be very, very busy. I think the board is going to be very, very busy. I'm sure you've heard this from some of the members of this board, apparently, who represent 50% of all of the citizens of this county. It may take an hour out of your day, and you may not like what we have to say. I don't necessarily like to hear what you have to say, but I give you the respect of hearing it, and that's what government is all about, hearing each other out and making the decision after we've heard the other side. not making up our minds before we've heard the discussion, but after. So I want to thank the NAACP for reaching out to me and helping put this together. I asked my supervisor, the board members, and staff to come together and talk about this. members, my colleagues, to please take a moment to think about the fact that you were elected to represent your folks. We were elected to represent our folks. At least let's talk it through before you make the decision. I would give you the same opportunity. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To your first comment, I would encourage you to try it your first opportunity to get that drafted. See if we can get VACO behind it as well prior to the 27th. I'll try to get it out to as many organizations as I can. We'll try to do everything we can to help with that, but VACO could be a big help there. Just a thought. Other comments? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. I understand that the Department of Education is proposing rules or regulations that basically say that what occurs in classrooms is a is not going to go and be transmitted to parents. Parents have the legal obligation to take care of their children, whether they're five years old or 18 years old or anything in between. So I think it's totally inappropriate for the Department of Education to state that comments that are made to teachers or others cannot be conveyed back. If it's an issue of child abuse, then obviously that should be reported to the police authorities and they can deal with that. But if it's an issue if I don't like my mom or I don't like my dad, or my mom made me eat pancakes today and I really want to eat something else, that's inappropriate. So I'd encourage the school board and Dr. Zivine to allow parents who are the legal guardians of children not to preclude them. The school is not the parent of the child. Children are the parents of the child. So that regulation needs to not be included, in my opinion, in Frederick County. Second comment. Yes, sir. Like Mr. McCormick, I think that the school board should be able to say that the school board is not the parent of the child. Second comment. Just maybe quick comment. Like Mr. McCarthy, I've been on the school board for five years. I've listened to all of you speak and some of you that are not here. And you've listened to me. And there is courtesy on that. And what occurred this afternoon, there was a closed session. I spent most of yesterday and a good portion of today preparing to lay out some thoughts on that closed session. And to shut that down is just fundamentally wrong. We all listen. We will listen. Every student must be told what's going on. Look, I'm proud of the things we're doing today. We're doing this that is wonderful. I'm proud of the changes. There's another issue that's going to come up today in which initially I was going to vote one way and now I'm going to vote another way because of comments that have been made. So we all try to listen. This is not personal. This is policy driven. And when we're talking about a policy of $30 million to shut down a closed session in the future, Mr. Chairman, if there's going to be four people that do not want it and that's going to be the item, then just let us know that as opposed to having to spend the time in preparation for that. I'll make comments on the policy issue when it comes up, when Mr. Wells brings that up. But there's a courtesy in saying that if we're not going to have a closed session to just say the votes aren't there, but to spend yesterday and today preparing for that, coming here at 3 o'clock, giving up business is extremely infuriating. So thank you, Mr. Chairman, for reconsidering that. Thank you, sir. Further comments, anyone? Hearing none, we'll move on. County officials, presentation of employee of the month. Ms. Dove, if you're... If you're here, I hope you are. Would you join us in the front, please? Vice Chairman Wells. Thank you. Employee of the month resolution awarded to B.J. Dove. Whereas B.J. Dove is identification of a... Dependable employee, making herself available as a constant, reliable resource to all employees at social services, with the front desk staff counting on B.J. to assist when clients come into the lobby or call, and staff members relying on B.J. to provide assistance and aid with unknown and or difficult case situations. Whereas our supervisors trust B.J.'s constancy and help carry load wherever needed. And during times... And during times of transition in management, and B.J. has proven to be a sturdy and unwavering leader and an advocate for the entire benefits division. And whereas B.J. possesses a positive attitude and takes responsibility for maintaining morale among workers, is thoughtful of other staff, celebrating them when the occasion arises, and often volunteers to cover the front desk, allowing others to attend gatherings. And where B.J. has been a loyal Frederick County employee for almost 20 years, and truly cares about the citizens of Frederick County and their well-being, as is demonstrated not only through her performance as a social services employee, but also through her actions within the community, such as regularly volunteering with different organizations, and in numerous capacities, including the Winchester Area Thermal Shelter, which aims to provide assistance to our current employees at the federal level, we should remember that our Amanus Service Center is an important member of that group. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. where she helps serve homeless citizens in a variety of ways. And whereas BJ has been an asset to Frederick County Department of Social Services, especially within the Benefits Division, and her knowledge, supportive, team-oriented, and caring nature has added value to the department and to the county as a whole, resulting in her being held in high esteem by her peers who truly and greatly appreciate her efforts. And therefore, be it resolved by the Frederick County Board of Supervisors this 13th day of January 2021 that BJ Dove is hereby recognized as the Frederick County Employee of the Month for December 2020. And be it further resolved that the Board of Supervisors extends gratitude to BJ Dove for her outstanding performance and dedicated service and wishes her continued success in future endeavors and be it finally resolved that the Board of Supervisors is hereby entitled to all the rights and privileges associated with this award. Please join me in thanking and congratulating BJ for her dedication. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Today is a ways and days basis. Today is a way and days I truly acknowledge BJ for his touch available to all and to healthy students as we all think about this experience. Thank you Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Pullam, Yes, sir. Mr. David idéeau, we also welcome to this lounge our unanimous panel members who've agreed to support BJ Dove's ball rant, provide you all with an update this evening. My name is David Giannino, and I also have with me Kyle Rhodes. I'm the Office of Plant Industry Services Program Manager with the Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. And I am the Spotted Lanternfly Crew Supervisor for Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. So tonight, what we'd like to do is just give you a very high level and brief update on Spotted Lanternfly status in Virginia. Hopefully you can see that presentation in front of you outlining the multiple life stages of Spotted Lanternfly. To get started, I'm going to go ahead and progress. Did that go through all right? Yes, please. Wonderful. Okay. All right. So I would like to start first just by giving a very brief history of Spotted Lanternfly in Virginia and its distribution currently. So a Spotted Lanternfly is an invasive insect that feeds on a variety of host species, it was first introduced into the United States through Berks County, Pennsylvania in 2014. Since that time, VDAC's inspector staff had been inspecting and searching for this insect for many years to make sure that we were not receiving any shipments out of that area that could have had Spotted Lanternfly. And unfortunately, in 2018, we did identify Spotted Lanternfly in Winchester, Virginia. This was found on a tree in the Winchester and northern Frederick County area. The map that you see on the right-hand side of the screen indicates red triangles. At the end of 2018, that was the distribution of Spotted Lanternfly positives as indicated by those red triangles. Since that time, we have been working, we'll get into a lot of details here, but we've been working cooperatively with the USDA and with Virginia Tech. Citizens have been working with us to find out what the effects of Spotted Lanternfly are on the species. So we've been working with the USDA and with Virginia Tech, citizens have been working with us to find out what the effects are on the species. So we've been working with the USDA and with Virginia Tech, including a lot of organizations and businesses, but the 2020 update of Spotted Lanternfly distribution is this picture right here. So we zoomed out a little bit farther, and these red diamonds are positives of Spotted Lanternfly. So in just three years, we have seen quite an expansion of its population, and Spotted Lanternfly can now be found in Frederick County, Warren County, Clark County, and also Shenandoah. There's a small, isolated population in Augusta County, but we do believe believe that that was picked up from a hitchhiker one insect on a traveling vehicle was found at a rest area one thing i'd like to point out before moving on is that if you look at frederick county as a whole there are a lot of areas that have yet to be infested with spotted lanternfly and so as we think about its spread primarily where it's located are around urban areas and the rural spread is happening and so the threat of spotted lanternfly is shifting where primarily it has been on urban uh and businesses and industrial but now we're going to start seeing a shift in its impact to agricultural sectors and so into that i'd like to shift over and hand it over to kyle to talk about the threat yeah so um as david said there are uh some threats to our community um one of those is our um agriculture community more um specifically our apple growers grape growers the vineyards and wineries as you can see in the picture um in high infestation areas they can overwhelm a crop or a grower um some of the other uh threats are to businesses uh through quarantine and permitting and uh we'll go into that a little later um and the next uh um is the proposedx type of industrial environmental policy so and i've just there are probably thousands of properties across the state and um those projects in the digital version of some of uh the sc bereits for the upcoming years might change and these projects also so more Northeast states will be becoming more understand as well as existing markets as well um the risk in discussions as well as um uh implications that go with that uh can affect that industry um and so just like the infestation the pictures you know this is um where some of the places are heading and um as the infestation increases it starts to limit our resources um and so i'll speak a little bit more about that in the next slide so um our efforts um the main thing i want to talk to you about uh is that this effort to deal with spotted lanternfly is cooperative there are many agencies partners concerned citizens and businesses of which um are vital to slowing the spread of spotted lanternfly um there is um all of this is uh right now the cooperation is is really good and we're working with um usda and virginia cooperative extension and um we're dealing with reports and uh what happens is we get in at some points of the year hundreds or thousands of reports come into us and our partners and what happens we follow up with those reports and we go to the property assess the properties by surveying it and then we get it back to the support team and we can then report it to the state of Mississippi and then go through that process and we can get the report back to the state of Mississippi and then we get back to the state of Mississippi and then we can get the report back to the And then based on permission from the property owner or business owner, we may take a variety of actions from a treatment, a trap, or actually following up at a later time with other options. And part of our effort is also permitting, and David's going to talk a little bit about the permit and quarantine. Yes, great. Thank you. So the next portion talks about the quarantine that's already in existence. So the biggest action that VDACS took in efforts to limit the spread of spotted lanternfly was establishing the spotted lanternfly quarantine. This quarantine was established in 2019 by the Commissioner of Agriculture. And what the purpose of the quarantine is, is it requires businesses that are moving regulated articles out of the quarantined area. Those businesses need to be protected. And so we're going to talk about that. And then the next part of our effort is also permitting. And I'll go into what a permit really means. But the goal, the ultimate goal of the quarantine is to slow the spread. Natural spread, we really don't have a ton of control over. But if we can identify pathways or areas where the human movement, human assisted movement of this insect, if we can reduce that, whether it's through best management practices or treatments or getting community involvement, all of those kind of contribute to slowing the spread. And so we're going to talk about that. And then the next part of our effort is to slow the spread. And the quarantine is a tool that contributes to slowing the spread. So I mentioned permitting. This picture here that you see is all of the states where spotted lanternfly is currently known in U.S. This was updated on December 7th, 2020. There are a couple of counties that have yet to report their infestations. But ultimately, what this shows is there are several states that have spotted lanternfly. And then the. Where you see the red line surrounding certain counties, that's an indication of where a state quarantine has been enacted. So there's multiple state quarantines. What we've done is we've tried to harmonize the permitting process that outlines certain steps and certain requirements. And so every state currently that you see listed in that map, they all honor reciprocating permits. So Pennsylvania has a permit or Virginia has a permit. Both states are honoring the permit. It really helps harmonize. The efforts. What does it take for a business to become permitted? We tried to streamline this process. And the permit requires a training, which we had assistance with Virginia Tech. It teaches businesses about how to identify the insect, how to inspect for the insect, records to take, biology and best management practices. Once a business representative takes that training course, then they can bring the training with them. And then they can share the information with their staff. And then they are required to maintain inspections and training logs. And then let's say, for instance, a business does find spotted lanternfly. A part of the permit ensures that they are making sure they're taking care of the insect, whether that's with a treatment or scraping egg masses or removing it. Because ultimately the goal is we don't want spotted lanternfly leaving. Right. That's the whole purpose. So I'm going to pass it back. Over to now. Kyle's going to kind of explain at the locality level. What can a locality do? Thanks, David. So the number one thing that we can all do together is follow best management practices. And that's whether in a business or at home or, you know. As a as a community, that's what we need to do. And and those can be. And then we can also do some of the things that we can do to help the community. So we can do some of the things that we can do to help the community. So we can do some of the things that we can do to help the community. And then like David said, if you find something properly disposing of that adult or nymph or egg mass. Another thing that can benefit the slowing of spotted lanternfly is working with staff and partners to conduct surveys and do treatments on county owned land. And this is paramount so that we can get to some of those properties and. Decrease the populations. Another item is outreach efforts. So whether it's communicating that with staff and meetings or actually putting materials in mailings to businesses and residents. So whether it's communicating that with staff and meetings or actually putting materials in mailings to businesses and residents. These are all key in reminding people of the quarantine and of the insect and how to best manage it. Like I said, training staff and identification. He just finding them and maybe. This is paramount so it's kind of put all of that into work. And then we can do those things together. Got it got it. Appreciate it, That's when we hit it and then here you never get to 할ob 노� now. And we're really. those early finds, identifying them, and then killing them. And then last but not least is it would be helpful to have a contact person to be able to work with on finds and dealing with the insect in specific properties. And like David and I both have spoken about, the partners in this program are vital. So definitely want to thank all of the Virginia residents and businesses who've supported and been cooperative with the process, obviously USDA APHIS, Virginia Cooperative Extension, and the others. And this is not a comprehensive list. There are many, many more partners that help us in this, and we appreciate all of that effort. With that, are there any questions? I don't have a question, but I really appreciate the presentation. As all of you know, I raised this issue in November because I had a constituent who said, I have a lot of these bugs in my backyard, what do I do? I called Mark Suppen and he said, thanks Blaine, we get 40 of these calls a day. And so he was kind of overwhelmed by it. So for you to put on this presentation to educate the broader public on what's occurring is important. And if you remember in the conversation we had earlier, we discussed the fact that I'd gone to Pennsylvania for a couple of days with my wife, and I noticed some spotted lander flyers there, and his comment to me was, Blaine, did you check your car coming back? I said, no, I didn't even think about it. So if you leave and go to those areas that are blue, you might consider checking your car. It's something that I never even thought about, didn't know about until we had this conversation, but it's something that will have a devastating effect on the agricultural area here in Frederick County, as well as elsewhere in the country. And so if we can put a stop to this, that's important. So gentlemen, thank you very much for the time. And Mark, I hope we get some help for you on this one. Thank you. Other questions or comments, anyone? Gentlemen, we certainly thank you, and we appreciate all your work. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. All right, gentlemen, we'll end the presentation here. Thank you. Great, have a great evening, everyone. You too, thanks again. All right, that'll bring us to 9C, Committee of Points. Thank you for using WebEx. Visit our website. Okay. Free ad. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Dr. Smith and Ms. Lee. Would you like to take a moment to spread that word, the story of man's partners at historic Thank you. Resources Advisory Board. Historic Resources Advisory Board, it's a four-year term. Dr. Robert Meadows has been serving with great distinction, eligible and willing, how would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for the appointment of Dr. Meadows off Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Dr. Meadows reappointed for another term. Parks and Recreation Commission is a four-year term from Back Creek. Representative Gary Longerbeam has been serving for quite some time, is eligible and willing. How would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Spoken with Mr. Longerbeam. He's really reached out to the community, tried to do some things to better the community and better the Parks and Rec Department. It's my honor to recommend to Mr. Longerbeam for a four-year, an additional four-year term on the Parks and Recreation Commission. Second. Thank you, sir. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Longerbeam reappointed. That brings us to Social Services. It's a vacant four-year term. It's an at-large seat. It expires in May. We have one application, Dr. John LaManna. How would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I think Mr. LaManna, Dr. LaManna would do a fantastic job on our Social Services Board, so I would so move that he fill that vacancy. Thank you, sir. If heard no motion, is there a second? Second from... Thank you, sir. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Graver. I think this is an absolutely the wrong pick for this position, and I'd like to state why. Social Services deal with people who are at their lowest point sometimes in their life. We need to assure that the folks who are overseeing that board have the highest level of integrity, have the highest level of commitment to the community. I have real concerns with selecting this gentleman for the board. If this board may recall, just a few years ago, Mr. LaManna and the superintendent of schools came before this board and stated for the pre-K education program that no county funds would be utilized only, except, and maybe, but they were. The first year there was $250,000, the second year the same. If this board is told something... I have a hard time in confidence expecting that the person telling us will be telling us the truth and will follow up on what they promised. I have a hard time appointing someone to a board who has not kept their word previously. Therefore, I cannot support this gentleman for this seat. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any other discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Supervisor McGill. Aye. Supervisor McArthur. Aye. Supervisor Schlaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graver. No. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Dr. LaManna be appointed. Board committee appointments. I think we just took care of that. That was part of 9C. That will bring us to 9D. Which is motion that... Added the... I'm sorry? It was the motion to add the... Yes, added to our agenda. Would you care to repeat your motion? Sure. The motion was under 9D that the county officials authorization for county administrator to execute contracts with EF Johnson, JVC Kenwood and Mission Critical Partners for the procurement of a public service. Thank you. I'll repeat that. So the commissioners authorization for the procurement of a public safety radio system and related services upon the public safety radio communication staff working group finalizing negotiations and I'll repeat that finalizing negotiations with EF Johnson and JVC Kenwood and Mission Critical Partners of contracts for the public safety radio system and related services. That was the addition to... Yes. To that. I would just add. Thank you. That was a motion. I move to authorize the county administrator to execute these contracts with EF Johnson and Kenwood and Mission Critical Partners for the procurement of this public safety radio system and related services upon the public safety radio communication staff working and finalizing negotiations with them and Mission Critical Partners and contracts for the public safety radio system as related services. I move to authorize... Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Chair. I would just add also that on the, so, anything else, have any comments on the commissioners authorization? No. No. No. Yes. Any questions? Any questions? I've heard the motion. I've heard the motion. Is there a second? Second, anyone? I will second it but, but I do have one, one issue with it and it should be a contract to not exceed, and I don't recall the exact dollar amount, but I think that should be a part of that. Did you wish to amend the motion? I, I can amend. I don't know what the... I don't know. Is there a figure that you? I believe Mr. Tierney had that for us at one time. I don't know what that would be. Cart ahead of the horse, I think. Mr. Chairman? Yes. I could put in a number for you. No, thank you. Not to exceed $15 million. I would second that. You got ahead of yourselves. Should I retract that? Yes, second. Second. Okay. Gentlemen, now we're in discussion. Okay. So if we're in discussion, the first question I ask for Mr. Wells is, can we separate out the vote on EF Johnson and the vote on mission critical partners? Mr. Chairman, you're shaking your head no, so let me ask you the question. Motion on EF Johnson. Motion on EF Johnson. Under discussion is as stated. Okay. All right. So let me then make some comments to this motion. For all of you in the audience, we were meant to have had a closed session to discuss this earlier. That did not occur. So to give you some background on what's occurring and why I have some concerns, first, I am neutral on whether it should be EF Johnson or Motorola or Harris or anybody else. I really do not care at this point. I have some significant concerns on the RFP and how it's put together, and that's a major concern. So let me tell you what my concerns are from a county official on the RFP. The current motion talks about the fact that there will be 20 DBs in certain areas and 12 DBs elsewhere. The question that I wanted to ask the communications committee was, did they consider something lower than 12? The reason is that's a cost-saving issue. It's a cost-saving issue. For homes. Normal homes like I live in, the chairman lives in, Mr. McCarthy lives in, Mr. Graber lives in, you only need four to eight DBs to penetrate that home. So if you're in that house and you're having a medical issue, you can easily be penetrated. For buildings such as the one we're in right now, the hospital, you need 20 DBs. But for most of the – so the question is, did the committee go through and discuss how many DBs were necessary to meet the – to meet the 95% requirement? And if there are very few, then we could actually lower the cost of this whole project by having a lower number. If the number were higher, then the 12 DB might be appropriate. But one of the questions I have is, was the question asked? And I don't know. Second question they asked was, in radio systems, you have a 7,800 megahertz. There's a very high frequency VHF and an ultra high frequency UHF. And in this situation here, why was UHF chosen? There's pros and cons on both. 7,800 is typically a public safety item that doesn't have interference with elsewhere, and UHF may. So the question is, did they go through that thought process and eliminate, here's the pros, here's the cons, why or why not? The third issue is, on the design, Motorola and – Harris both failed on the first initial request for information on the P25. Motorola then was given a second chance to put in an alternative. Why was Harris not given the same opportunity? Next question on the 95% issue. In the southwest corner of this county, there's a national forest, the George Washington National Forest. Mr. Graver and I spent some time there earlier this week going through that. Mr. Graver and I spent some time there earlier this week going through that. If you remove that national forest in which there are no buildings, then the numbers change. So for example, if I gave you a square of 100 seats and told you that you need 95% coverage, then obviously you need coverage for 95 seats. But if you remove five seats, now your coverage has gone up to 100%. So the question is, did they go through the thought process on coverage for an area that has no buildings? I hike. If I'm in a national forest, I'm going to have to go through the process of removing the national forest. If you're off the coast, you said it's worth 98. The question is, for example, if you go over this, and the private property, all the five seats, I'm allowing the national forest to go up to 91. But here is my favorite part. The我的マ DOJ. MY DARE DO. And this is where, you know, I came in with everything that any of my colleagues has, and you come up with something with everything that you all track, your go do th in your focus. And this was a standalone, which means you have to switch a switch going into an area in a high-stress situation. Did they think through that pros and cons on that issue? On the radio concerns, for Mission Critical, I asked three questions and got three incorrect answers. My first comment on the question was when I asked Mr. Miles, what about the VP8000? And he told me that it was in the hands of the Chief Lindenberg. The VP8000 is a portable phone. It is not in existence today. They have a VP6000. The upgrade is a hardware and software issue. In conversations I had with EF Johnson earlier this week, they said that if they build their integrated system, you can use anybody's radio, a Harris radio, EF Johnson radio, Motorola radio, or anybody else's, and name some others. That's a plus for EF Johnson. But for Harris to have made the comment, to me, he said, well, have you checked on the website, Mr. Dunn? That same radio system he's been involved in in two other states. The second item he made was when I asked the questions on coverage in the National Forest, and his comment was we've had a number of instances there. When I asked Leanna Pyle, who's director of our 911 center, how many, she said two. And then she said, if you need more, I need dates and times and places. The reason I raised that issue is that National Forest, and I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. is adjacent to a number of other counties. And so when a 911 call goes in, responders from Frederick County may be responding, but the call did not originate in Frederick County. It originated maybe in Page County, or Warren County, or one of the West Virginia counties. That was the issue that I would like to go on through and explore some more. In Fayette County, Georgia, which has a similar system with EF Johnson, they have not even tested an 8,000. They've tested a 6,000. So, you know, I don't know. One of the questions to the committee was, did you test the 8,000? The radio system is going to be different. The antenna is going to be different. That's what I've been told. Was it done? I don't know yes or no, but those are the issues that I was trying to deal with. Another issue is site selection. The EF Johnson site has two towers on school grounds. The school board has to vote. If the school board votes no, then the whole system has to be redesigned. Ms. O'Neill has said that if it's done within a half, a mile, there's no problem. We have no idea on that. So one issue is going to be why do we want to have a vote on this today when the school board has the potential of upsetting the apple cart? Not intentionally, but if they vote no, then the commitments that are being made by EF Johnson today go out the window and have to be renegotiated. Next comment. Harris and Motorola lost this contract. And as we all know, when you lose something, you have sour grapes. And I accept that people making comments may have some grains of thought. But when they make good constructive comments, I'll listen to those as I'll listen to anybody else. And I highly suspect that if you had Harris in the mix, along with Motorola and EF Johnson, the price tag would be in the 15 to $16 million range, not the $21 million range or higher. It helps all of us in Frederick County to put as many competitors into the market. Let them compete for our benefit. Get a high quality system, which Mr. Wells wants, and so do we. But at a lower cost. So those are some major issues with that. And then with mission critical, this is why I wanted to split this in a second. I was given incorrect information on the mountains on the forest. I was given incorrect information on a radio. And they also asked if Johnson or I asked mission critical, can you tell me who in the last 10 years, in which you've been the advisor, who have been the participants, EF Johnson, Harris, Motorola, others. And the response came back, well, here's, I can't give you 10 years information. I can give you five years information. In that five years information, out of the listing, there was one Harris project that won, but it wasn't Harris. It was a dealer of Harris in Iowa. And that dealer headquarters happened to be in that county. In addition, there were two other, Harris proposals that were not even included on the list that I was given. So therefore I have significant concerns on mission critical going forward and implementing this when I get inaccurate and incorrect information on this. And so for that reason, Mr Chairman, I am going to, I'm going to oppose this, but I'm also going to make a motion to go and separate this vote so that the vote will be a separate vote on mission critical as to implement as opposed to being included in the motion as stated. And that's a motion. Second. Make a motion to amend. I made a motion to serve Sherman. I'm making a motion to amend. Okay. I have a motion to amend 9d to separate MSD from the rest of the motion. Is there any discussion on the proposed amended motion? Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. I agree with supervisor. Done that it's appropriate to separate the two because the two aren't integral to one another. You don't have to have one to implement the other. I think that's fair to have a discussion on the appropriateness of one contract versus the other contract and take them as separate issues. And I'll say that the reason I state that is when this process began and common sense would dictate, and I think most of the people in this room, when you make a decision to spend a substantial amount of money and you need a consultant to help you decide how to spend that money or you need, you want to talk, to someone about how best to approach something, you might talk to people and shop around and say, well, who's the best person to help us do this? Okay, well, this person recommends person a, this person recommends person B, this person recommends person C. I'm going to talk to all three and decide which one I think is the most capable of helping us. And this situation, we didn't do that. We just hired a mission critical as supervisor done has stated, Mr. Critical has not given us accurate information from their main, who I would call a, say, salesman. He hasn't been a consultant as much as he's tried to sell us on a particular system. And what he's told us hasn't been accurate. I don't have faith that the man who can't answer the question simply the questions that he's supposed to be the expert on is going to be able to do the best job for us to lead us into implementing one of the most important projects that this county has seen in decades. I'd like us to talk to other people. I like to talk to person B and person C and find out, do we really have the best person before we just jump forward with the one person who we've talked to and hope that they're going to be the best person. I'm going to talk to the person who's the best person. I'm going to talk to the person who's the best person. I'm going to talk to the person who's the best person. I'm going to talk to the person who's the best person to implement this. It's a $30 million project that is going to cost us. And we have Sheriff Mill Holland here with his people that need the system. We've got, uh, chief my shock back there. His people need the system. Let's make sure we do it right. So that's why I think it should be taken up as a separate item. Further discussion on the amended motion. Mr. Chairman, Supervisor Graver. I would concur with both supervisors comments to date. I was the supervisor that asked our mission critical partners, Leah, on a yes or no question and could not get a yes or no question. Then I was told that the series 800 radios had been in the fire chief's hands and that they had been demonstrated to work and that they liked them only to find out that it hadn't even been on a production line yet. I don't know how many folks out here appreciate being told this information, but I, for one strongly dislike it. I think that it is. It is critical that we look at what other agencies, and there are several in Virginia that provide the same information. There are several agencies that provide the same services that mission critical partners provides and give. This board an opportunity to decide if there is another company out there that we might trust and might serve our residents better. I'm in full agreement. We need a system that will serve the needs of our first responders as well as our residents, and that it needs to be done in an expedited manner. However, I don't believe that we need to rush into a situation where we rubber stamp or give the contract to oversee the installation. We need to do it. We need to make sure that we get testimony from contractors got on theiruniform to bathrooms, warehouse, services. We need to participate in doing it, so that it takes longer. the county attorney, or I'm sorry, the county administrator to execute a contract with EF Johnson for the committee to finalize negotiations. I did not hear or take that to mean that we would necessarily be continuing to work with MCP. I am going to let Mr. Wells confirm the motion that he made. I disagree. I think that at least the way I had it worded was to authorize the county administrator to execute contracts with EF Johnson slash JVC Kenwood and Mission Critical. I missed that. I apologize. Yeah, so that's the way it was. That's the way it was worded. They were too. I certainly understand the other supervisor's concern, and if that can be split, I'm okay with that. All right. Further discussion on the proposed amendment, as long as it's to the amendment. We're in discussion. Mr. Chairman, I just had the amounts for supervisor slaughter for the others, but we can save those for later. We're past that at the moment. Thank you, sir. All right. Any further discussion on the proposed amendment? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegma? Aye. Chair votes no. Motion carries. We will now consider discussion on the amended motion, which is to separate MSD from the rest of the contract discussion. Point of order, Mr. Chairman. Sir? Yes, sir. Point of order. We just voted on separating Mission Critical partners out, so the vote that we just took was on having Mission Critical partners out of this voter equation, and now this vote that we would be taking, or will we be having, is on having a discussion on whether we are going to approve of the EF Johnson contract moving forward or not. Yes, agreed. If I didn't state it, well, I'm sorry. But, agreed. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Comment on that. It's unfortunate that we're sitting here going through these motions having this discussion, but I would say it could have all been prevented. A year ago, after a budget discussion, I asked the chairman, when are the meetings going to be for this committee, because we had been discussing capital costs and money to come out of the capital reserve fund, and I asked when are the meetings going to be held, because it would be interesting to hear what the discussion was going to entail. And your comment to me was, well, we'll let the committee handle that. You'll have time to ask your questions after they come back with a report. We were kept out, and I respectfully assented and didn't push you on it. We were kept out. Supervisor Graber asked if he could sit on the committee meetings. He, too, was told, Mr. Chairman, that we were going to have a discussion on that. We were kept out. Supervisor Graber asked if he could sit on the committee meetings. He, too, was told, No, you can't sit in. You'll have time to ask your questions after the committee does its work. Supervisor Dunn asked if he could know when the committee meetings were, because he would like to sit in. He, too, was told, don't participate, don't ask your questions, wait until it's all done, then you can ask your questions. Come to find out months later, Supervisor Slaughter and Supervisor Wells were allowed to go to the meetings, ask questions, listen to the discussion, but the three of us, the same three people, let me finish my comment, the same three people who were boxed out of the discussion earlier today were the three people who weren't allowed to go to those meetings and ask our questions. Had we been allowed to participate in the same level as the rest of the members of this committee, perhaps our questions could have been answered. Questions that we all agreed one meeting ago were important questions that deserved answers, and it wasn't until we received a threatening letter from the attorneys for one of these companies, E.F. Johnson, basically saying, we're going to sue you if you don't give us the contract. We were on track to have a discussion. At least that's the way it appeared on the agenda. And now suddenly that a threat has come across, we're going to say, oh, well, you're going to sue us? Well, welcome aboard. You're our new partner in this. That's how these things are going. And it's really unfortunate that the citizens of Gainesboro, the citizens of Back Creek, the citizens of Redbud didn't have a chance to participate in the process. And the process is flawed. It's very flawed. We discovered that as we went through the process. We haven't had the chance to do our duty as representatives to our constituents. And I laid at the feet, Mr. Chairman, of you for having kept us out of this discussion. And I'm sorry it came to that. Had we had a discussion earlier today, I may not have had to say that. But you have made it impossible for us to represent our constituents. Thank you, sir. I'm going to comment very briefly with respect. I did tell supervisors that their opportunity, to make the decisions, ask questions, decide what to do, happens in this body, in this room. If there were supervisors attending those committee meetings, I was unaware of it. The committee had been working for two years. I still think that my advice was right. Respect your disagreement with that. And we will move on. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I attended the meetings. I'm not a member of the committee. I never was a member of the committee. And I had no comments as to what the committee was discussing. I want that to be perfectly clear. The reason that I attended those meetings, and only a couple of them that I attend, I am chairman of the public safety. And as chairman of public safety, I was asked to attend the meeting. That's what I attended. I was not. The chairman did not say, Mr. Wells, I want you to attend this meeting. I know you didn't say that. I just want to be clear that it wasn't, the chairman wasn't saying, oh, these two can go and you can't. He told me the same thing about any questions or any things I had. Had it come before the board. They weren't discussed in these committee meetings. I simply was a liaison. And Supervisor Slaughter is one of my committee persons on board. And she did attend a couple of those meetings also as a liaison. With no input or takeaway, whatever you want to call, we listened and listened to what they were doing. That was basically it. So just clarification. I'm going to ask the board to focus on the motion that is on the floor. We are in discussion. Discussion of the motion, please, Supervisor Graver. Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I, too, was told to stay out of it. January of last year, I asked to be a part of the communications committee because of my emergency services background of 22 years. I will never do that again. To the residents of Bat Creek, I apologize. I gave the chairman of this board the benefit of the doubt, and I should not have done so. However, I've asked for several things, and those questions have yet to be answered. I feel almost tonight like I'm in the House of Representatives. I'm having the chairwoman of the House ram something down my throat without even having the figures out. One of the things that I wanted to find out tonight was how much will the total price of this situation be, and where is the money coming from to pay for it? We have some money in the long-term plan to pay, about $16 million, according to our finance director. I called and talked to her. But this proposed... The system will cost more than that. So where are we borrowing the money from? Another question that I had was, has the IT committee had an opportunity to look at this? And I called some of the folks on the IT committee, and they said no. That's very concerning to me. There's not only hardware involved in this system, but there is software. As you may be well aware on your own home computer, software has the ability to have hacks and other things, security breaches, and many, many other items associated with it. There are some companies who have a very high level of security because of the customers in which they have, one being our U.S. military. I still have no surety in the security of the system that's proposed. I had multiple questions I wanted answered there. Could it be that someone comes in and hacks our system and shuts it down? And so our... Emergency services personnel do not have a radio system that is serviceable to them. Another question I had, if Motorola can provide a system that is completely digital, yet EF Johnson states they're going to try to provide a system that's completely digital. However, if it's not, if they can't get the coverage that they need, that they will, for the residents of my district, a portion of my district, including my house, have a series of systems that is analog, then it's no better. It's no better than the system that I have now. Not my words from the committee, so shake your head what you want. So if my residents are disenfranchised and having the same service or close to what they have now and not a completely digital system like the rest of the county, why would we want to move forward with this system? We're spending a large volume of money for something and not much better service. I agree with Mr. McCarthy. I don't appreciate being bullied and intimidated to sign a contract, and it is wrong. And if this was in my personal house, I would tell them to get off the property and never come back. Yet we are talking about today giving a contract to that very company. It baffles my mind. No discussion. Two months after we are being presented with the information, we're asked to vote on it, and the committee took a year. And we're not being allowed to get our questions answered. This is preposterous. I will not support this system. I definitely want to see a new system in an expeditious manner, and I have four first responders. It is needed. How this has been approached, the system that's being presented, and how this has been presented has been wrong. I can't support it. Thank you. Further discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Two comments. A couple comments. One, just for the record. Yes. We had all agreed that if something was going to be on the agenda, that you wanted to be notified on the Wednesday before noon. And this coming out at this point in time, I'm just saying for the record, is just wrong. What that means is you have four votes. They can change. They can change anything at any time. And that's just fundamentally wrong. To the motion. EF Johnson sent a letter to the county. And the letter basically said that the committee had made a recommendation to us, and that we, the board, should just sign off and approve that recommendation. And if they did not, that they threatened a lawsuit. I'm also on the Public Safety Committee, but the first time I was allowed, to go and start to look at the information was October 31st. Between October 31st and the middle of December, six weeks, I was asking lots of questions and having a chance to look at this information initially. Between the middle of November or middle of December now, it's essentially been a dead time with holidays. So I'm stunned that we're having this discussion today. I'm being asked to cast a vote, and if I have to be asked to cast a vote, then I expect to be able to do my homework. And that doing my homework means asking questions, good, bad, or indifferent. As I said before, I am neutral on whether it should be Motorola, EF Johnson, Harris, or somebody else. I'm still at the process of saying, was the process to arrive where we are correct? And it may or may be, I know there are communication people in this, but I don't know because I haven't had the chance to chat with you to walk through those things. And that was important. This is a, as Mr. McCarthy said, a $30 million project. And if anything changes in this, I'm going to have to go back to the meeting. If anything changes in this, as I said earlier, if the school board votes no, then the project changes, and if the project changes then legally, what we're agreeing to today also gets to change. I find it highly inappropriate that a firm, if they are confident in their proposal, would go and threaten a lawsuit. I am a supervisor. I'm asked to vote. I'm asked to do my homework. I am not asked to rubber stamp the communications committee's work. They may have done a great job. I can have the opportunity to affirm that or not affirm that. If the communications committee was the sign-off, then it could have gone from the communications committee to the administrator. If the administrator said yes or no, then he would be responsible for the outcome. But that's not the case. The administrator is not being held responsible for this outcome. We are, the seven of us. And so for them to go and threaten a lawsuit is just totally inappropriate. And for us further not to not have the opportunity to ask the questions, to come to a conclusion, and to be able to go back and say, I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. And so I think that's the first step. And then I think that's the second step. And then I think that's the third step. And then I think that's the fourth step. And then I think that's the fifth step. And then I think that's the sixth step. And for that reason, the timing of this is just totally wrong. I'm going to vote against this. But we need a radio system. We need a good radio system. Mr. Wells made the comment earlier, he wants a good quality radio system. So do I. I want one that works. I want one that works across the board. But if I can get a good quality radio system for $15 million or $16 million versus 21 or 22, I want that too. When I go out and buy a pair of jeans, I'll spend $20. I'm not going to spend $100. And we haven't had the opportunity to go in and bring in further competition or force EF Johnson and Motorola to further compete. The people from Motorola said we were never asked a best and final offer. It was just for more information. And if you're going to go and compete from the county's perspective, you should be able to say to EF Johnson, what's your best offer? And then criticize that to see if you can get it lower without hitting quality. If it comes to a point where you lose quality, then you say, fine. You know what? That's too much. You should have done the same thing with Motorola. What's your best offer? What can you do? And what do you not like about the other competitors? That way we get to learn and hear the cross comments between an analysis from a competing company and what they like or don't like. That's informative. And Harris should have been given the opportunity to be competed because Motorola failed on their first shot. And then we're given the second shot. And it's to benefit all of us. We, the people in this county, are going to pay $15 million, $20 million or higher. And we have the opportunity, if we vote this down and continue the negotiations, to save another $5 or $6 million. And that is significant. $5 or $6 million buys 50 to 60 school buses, just to put that in perspective. It buys a whole lot more. So I really encourage you all to rethink your positions and give us the time to go and work on this more, not have a vote tonight. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further discussion. Anyone? Mr. Chairman, I've listened to three of the supervisors. I've heard their comments. I've worked very hard and very long trying to get this through and do the right thing for the county. And my fear is that we are going to procrastinate and dilly dally, whatever you want. Call it. And we're going to not get there. We've tried and tried and tried and tried. My thought was to move ahead, to work with EF Johnson, pick one of the ones that we have, pick with them, do the best we can, see if we can't work out all the problems as we go along. It sounds to me like three supervisors want to go back to the board. I don't know what the legalities of that are. But. Um. I don't know. At this point, I'm just done with it. And I withdraw my motion. And if it falls on its face, it falls on its face. I withdraw my motion. I'm done with it. I'll second that. Further discussion. Mr. Chairman. Yes. I would just like to say we have been at this process for two years. We have chosen the expert employees of all the employees. We have all departments that are involved in public safety radios. We have two experts from fire and rescue that deal with our radio system on a daily basis. We have two chosen representatives from the Sheriff's Office that have provided service to our public safety in that department. We had two representatives on this committee from the 911 Dispatch Department. And we had two volunteer fire department people as a part of this communications committee. These people have worked for two years to get us to this point and make a recommendation. And they sat down and identified the parameters that they felt were important to ensure the safety of their fellow comrades. I just don't know how much more we ask of someone. They have done the job we asked them to do. They have spent multiple months and time to get us to a point of a recommendation to give us 95% coverage. We have law enforcement people out there and EMS people who have no coverage. And we continue to push this can down the road. We have a purchasing officer who has taken us through the procurement process by code to make sure that we are doing the proper ethical things and assessing a contract and awarding a contract. The committee's recommendation to all of us to be able to get this done is to get this done. And that's what we're doing. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. We're doing it. What we are doing here is solely to assure that the雄 you and the other Arab individuals that we have in our 여러분's family respect that our country is talked to into this anchoring office. And that's what we were told. I conclude, sir. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I would just like to address a few things that have just been recently mentioned. Yes, we do have a purchasing agent and an agent that negotiates this process. However, state code says we must have a minimum of two companies competing, but it doesn't say that we have to have a maximum of two companies competing. There were four companies in this process. Only two were allowed to truly compete. The one company that was allowed to compete went back to being Motorola and allowed to readjust their proposal. However, none of the others were. I would provide to this board and to all those listening that some on our staff did only the bare minimum and did not truly look out for the best interest of our residents and the pocketbooks they're in. I concur with Supervisor Dunn's comments that they're very well, may likely be a system out there that does truly meet our needs for $15 million that can be paid cash for with our current funding. We are already almost $300 million in debt between Combined Debt of the County Schools and Frederick County. That is a lot of money to repay. To continue to add debt service to our residents' backs, I think, is wrong. When we can purchase a system likely that would be adequate for our needs and that would be a way to get the best interest of our residents. So I think that we have not done due diligence as a complete board. I believe that instead of doing the bare minimum of only allowing two companies to truly bid this process, that it should have been opened up to three companies and allow the companies to truly compete. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I would like to continue with the agenda and continue this if you care to. Under board comments? We don't have a motion on the floor. Does this make sense to you all? 30-second comment to Mrs. Slaughter. Right ahead. Mrs. Slaughter, I know you are a hardworking supervisor. I respect you for the time that we've gone on the board together. Your concerns on the time, I would just throw out the suggestion to you that if we had the opportunity to have another meeting to ask the questions of me or rep the questions of the board, I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. I would do that. Second issue would be that if you bring back Harris and Wall, let all three compete, I think you could probably end up with a good answer in a two-month time frame. So I'm not going to push this down the road forever and ever. I'm simply going to say get these questions answered. And if they can be done in a two-month time frame, I'm just throwing out the thought to you. You don't have to comment. But that was just my thought. I empathize with your concern about our citizens. We all do. But I don't see this as a good thing. don't see this as drawing out for another two years I think it can be much shorter thank you mr. chairman thank you gentlemen all right so let's move on committee business code and ordinance committee yes sir supervisor McCarthy an ordinance committee unanimously recommends that the three items on the agenda before the public hearing and I would to move heard the motion is there a second second is there any discussion any I have one and that's on the second to a two which is payments of business licenses in incorrect excesses big businesses operate differently than what most of us are used to for it to be two or three you know I don't know I don't know I don't know I don't know I don't know I don't know but I can't I guess it could be to towards the end of this half of this любой thank you Mr. Chairman thank you he's trazer ducks walk away we have no other directors here Further discussion? Yes, sir. I'm also on the Code and Ordinance Committee along with Mr. McCarthy. I think the thought process behind that was that we just wanted to see businesses up to date on whatever was owed. If there's a mistake down the road, then that can be adjusted. It was just to let companies be up to date with us when we're doing this. That didn't help me with the problem in that these are excess payments where they miscalculated and paid too much. Mr. Chairman, unless I'm misreading the ordinance, it's not precluding a big business from getting a refund. It's simply allowing us to handle smaller refunds at an administrative level. Larger refunds over $5,000 would come to this body to be approved. We can still approve those. So it's not a problem. It's just a matter of how much we're going to pay for those. It's not taking it away from those institutions. It's just requiring that it basically streamlines the process. It allows anything under $5,000 to be handled administratively and then anything above that to come before us for a refund. I can live with that one. All right. Further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegma? Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. That will bring us to public hearing. Ordinance pursuant to Virginia Code. Who is presenting? Mr. Chairman, I will address this. At your December meeting, the Board considered the State mandated bonus of $500 that was to be paid to Sheriff's Department and jail employees that were comp board funded positions. This was a State mandate that was to be paid by the end of December. At that time, staff had prepared a couple different alternative additional proposals for the Board's consideration. The implementation of them got somewhat convoluted. Although, the Board's consideration was not in line with the plan, which is why it's convoluted. Ultimately, what the Board decided to do was simply make the mandated payments to those comp board funded positions and requested that staff bring something back before March. So what we have before you tonight, I hope, is two fairly simple, straightforward alternative proposals. The first of the two that are in order on your agenda, the first would be a five-page report on the state's mandated bonus. The second would be a $500 payment to all county employees, exclusive of those who have already received that state mandated bonus. If you were to decide to do that, the cost to the county would be $313,500. It would cover all county employees that have not received the mandated bonus. Thank you. The second alternative is a more narrowly defined class of employees. This proposal would provide a $500 bonus to only those employees that are classified as high or very high risk employees and, once again, who did not already receive the state mandated bonus. The intent of that wording was to try and address those employees that are in the same class of employment as those that received the mandated bonus in addition to our fire and rescue personnel. The cost of that alternative, because it is a narrower class of employees, would be $122,500 to the county. There is no reimbursement from the state for either of these two alternatives. If we were to implement one of the two alternatives, either way, the money would have to be appropriated or, I'm sorry, require a general fund transfer out of our operational contingency, the balance of which is currently about $2.6 million. So that's the alternative proposals that we've brought before you tonight, and it is a public hearing. And I'm happy to try and answer any questions if there are any. Questions of Mr. Tierney? Questions of Mr. Tierney? Anyone? Supervisor McArthur? And the county attorney needs to, I don't know if it's a legal question or an administrative question, but do you, Mr. Tierney, we passed a budget last year that included a COLA increase for employees, and you have prudently not paid that out this year, but you have the authorization to do that. So is it still, are you still able, even without authorization, but if the board were to encourage you to give a pay increase of some type through the budget that's already been allocated, could that still happen? Board could do that. We had hoped to reconsider that COLA. I'm sitting here, honestly, trying to remember whether we took that out of the budget. That's my recollection, is it got cut from the budget. COLA's no longer in the budget? I don't believe so, no. Okay. Thank you. Questions? Anyone? No. Okay. Thank you. Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I thought I'd write it wrong. I thought that the COLA was in the budget, and I thought that the administrator, after we passed that budget, about a week later said, hey, because of comments concerning COVID, that he just said I'm not going to use that. Maybe the finance chair knows more, but that's what I thought occurred. I thought both ways, and I heard our staff say that they're not certain. Mr. Chairman? Mr. Chairman, I believe the COLA was cut from the budget. What Mr. Tierney froze or chose not to proceed with, I guess when COVID hit and leading into the new budget, were new hires or new positions. Those were held for a period of time, but then some of those were since released. Okay. That sounds like the answer. We brought those back, and yes. Yes. The COLA was cut before we adopted the budget. Okay. Good. All right. Further questions, anyone? Seeing none, how would the Board like to proceed? Public hearing. Okay. Since it's a public hearing, would anyone like to comment concerning these two proposals? Anyone at all? Last chance. Close the public hearing portion. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How would the Board like to handle these? Mr. Chairman? Supervisor McSlawwater. Supervisor McSlawwater. I would like to make a motion to approve a monetary bonus of $500 each to all individuals who were, as of December 1, 2020, employed on a full-time basis by the county, or by, or as the county's Constitutional Officers, or the County's Council of Chiefs, as seemed to be asking for on a voluntary basis. Will the Board approve this motion? constitutional officers or by entities for which the county serves as fiscal agent and whose positions are classified as very high exposure risk or high exposure risk according to 16 VA C25-220 emergency temporary standard for infectious disease prevention SARS-CoV-2 that caused COVID-19 said bonuses to be payable on or before March 31st, 2021, provided, however, that no person who received a bonus pursuant to the ordinance enacted by the Board of Supervisors on December 9, 2020, shall be eligible for or receive a bonus pursuant to the terms of this ordinance. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Chair, I just want to clarify the motion. Yes, sir. Was it that only high and very high classifications would receive the bonus if they haven't already received it? That is correct. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I second it. Second? Second. Second. Discussion? Supervisor Dunn? This is the second proposal that Mr. Tierney had laid out, correct? High and very high only that did not receive the mandate from the government. Okay. I'll make one comment. I talked to our finance director earlier, and I had some concerns. I'm not sure if I can answer that. I'm not sure if I can answer that. I'm not sure if I can answer that. I'm not sure if I can answer that. Okay, thank You, Mr. Chairman. I'll also add that we havegem inside your office. There are a lot of concerns this meeting is getting the Р Lobby we are looking at now, and a lot of concerns inasz spring on Covid-19. Revenue is not as bad as it was expecting to be. And we still Od Egypt or's in the woods but we still have to have business licenses us revenue come in and some other issues occur in March. But because right min timed in other issues and current March but supporting the motion that Mrs. Slaughter did. We are not out of the woods on the economics, but at least right now we are not in a dire situation. So based upon the finance director's comments, I think we have the money to cover this expense and therefore I would support it. Further discussion? Just a clarification. Yes, sir. Are we, the motion is for the expenditure of $313,000. That's the one, it's the $122,000 for the very high, the high and very high exposure. And that was your motion? Yes, sir. That is the second and that is the motion that we're discussing. Is there any further discussion? I have to comment. I support this motion, but it's not right that we don't treat all of our dedicated staff equally. Mr. Chairman, I would like to come back with a second motion if we, after we entertain this motion. Let's go with the one that's on our table, please. Yes. Thank you. Any further discussion? Are we ready? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Mr. Chairman? Yes, ma'am. I would like to make a motion to cover the remainder of the employees who did not receive the mandated amounts and the employees that we just covered with the high and very high risk. Let's see, and I can read the full ordinance if you would like me to do that. But it would be the balance so that all employees are covered. Payment of a monetary bonus of $500 each to all individuals who work with the One- hooray on Monday September 21st 2022 and their employer, what would that mean? John, I ask for your hindsight. I would add that during the Doc's rule not going hours, to the Tucumfoundryune left window pages had配合 Э doesn't see four entrees. So actually the regiment has not. Just to clarify. Eve. 9, 2020, shall be eligible for or receive a bonus pursuant to the terms of this ordinance. I heard the motion. Is there a second? Anyone? I'll second the motion for purposes of discussion. That will take us into discussion. Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. I agree that all of our employees deserve the same respect and dignity for the work they do because it's all important work, but I disagree that everyone should be treated equally. We don't pay everybody the same. Sheriff Milholland's employees' jobs tend to be inherently more dangerous than perhaps the treasurer's employees' jobs. So while I agree that everyone's jobs are important, I don't agree that they should all be treated equally. The intent, the reason we're even having this discussion is because the comp board decided that certain people that have a higher risk deserve some type of, for lack of a better word, a hazard pay for this pandemic. And the spirit of that, I think, is that we're not going to be able to do that. We're not going to be able to do that. We're not going to be able to do that. We're not going to be able to do that. We're not going to be able to do that. We're not going to be able to do that. I think the motion that we just passed does that. I don't think it's appropriate to give every employee that bonus, especially in the middle of an economic crisis, a pandemic where the taxpayers are having to bear the brunt of those costs. I think the taxpayers will be happy to support our law enforcement, our firefighters who are putting their lives on the line in the middle of a pandemic where they're in the direct front lines. But the folks that are in the support, it's difficult, but it's difficult for everybody, including the taxpayers. I think that's the point that we're going to have to make. I don't think that's the point that we're going to have to make. I think that's the point that we're going to have to make. I think that's the point that we're going to have to make. I don't think it's appropriate to do it across the board. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully concur with the comments that were just made by Supervisor McCarthy. I have a real difficult time thinking that I will give the same amount of money to an employee who does not, for lack of a better word, get their hands dirty in person's vomit, spit, other things that really put them at high risk, or poor folks that wear a mask, and they're not even wearing a mask. They're not even wearing a mask. They're not even wearing a mask. They're not even wearing a mask. They're not even wearing a mask. They're not even wearing a mask. They're not even wearing a mask. They're not even wearing a mask. They're not even wearing a mask. So, I think that's the point. If we're to give a person a 500-hour stipend, whether that be for a badge every day, whether that be firing EMS, or whether that be law enforcement, every day run the risk of getting spat on, punched, all the other items that go along with their job. To give those employees a 500-hour stipend and then give an employee that's sitting behind a desk while their job is also vitally important, it's two levels of risk or exposure. And if I were in the field practicing... I would be very taken aback to know that the person who may come into contact with three or four people a day in a controlled environment are going to be getting the exact same amount of money that I'm getting in a completely uncontrolled environment. And I believe it's a smack in the face to our first responders who are putting their families at risk, who are putting themselves at risk to move forward such a proposal as has been proposed. Therefore, I will not support it. Further discussion? Anyone? I have to comment that this will leave sworn officers without a bonus. It will leave some regional jail officers without a bonus. I don't think that's right. So, further discussion? Anyone? I have one question. Supervisor Dunn. Irrespective of how this vote occurs, does the administrator have the capability in his salary, in the money allocated for salaries, to do anything on his own? Or is that totally eliminated? I'm just asking as a question because I don't know. Meaning, does... If we removed the salaries from the budget, they're gone. Okay. We'll start on a new budget later this month or early next month. Just to offer a point of clarification. I'm okay with that. The bonus that the board voted on to provide to high and very high-risk employees covers our jail and sheriff and... Fire and rescue personnel with the exception of perhaps some office personnel and things of that nature. All of them? Because when I ask, that's not the answer I got, but I trust your answer. I can't tell you... Fire marshals? I can't speak to... That was certainly the intent was to cover the vast majority of those high-risk positions. Let's move on and reach a decision point. Unless someone has further discussion. Supervisor Slaughter? My recollection was the same as yours and that it did not include sworn officers, but I don't remember where I saw that or the ones that are serving papers and that sort of thing. So unless there's objection, we have a motion on the floor. We've had discussion. Unless someone else has a comment, we finish that discussion. We'll move forward. It can come back if it needs to be. We ready? Supervisor Stegmaier? No. Supervisor McCarthy? No. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Dunn? No. Supervisor Graber? No. I vote yes. The motion carries and we'll move on. Board of order? That motion failed, sir. No, that's what I meant. That's not what you said. I'm sorry. I misspoke. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman. It failed miserably. Thank you. Yes, sir? One question on this. If between now and the next board meeting, the administrator can clarify exactly who... Yes, sir. Exactly what we did, yes. ...is covered, then one of us in the majority may come back and address that issue. Would I like to see that information first? We'll document it. I agree. Okay. We good? Mr. Klein, thank you, sir. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board of Supervisors. This is a public hearing on a proposed ordinance amendment to Chapter 165, the zoning ordinance, to allow backyard chickens and chicken coops as a by-right use in the RP, or residential performance zoning district. This request for a zoning ordinance text amendment was initiated by a citizen through their Board of Supervisors representative. Currently, the keeping of chickens is only allowed in the county's RA, or rural areas, zoning district. The proposed amendment would allow single-family detached lots, 15,000 square feet of land, or approximately .34 acres or greater, to have up to a maximum of six chickens by-right in the RP, R4, and R5 zoning districts. The R4 and the R5 are our planned communities. The keeping of chickens would still be prohibited in townhomes, duplexes, multi-family buildings, garden apartments, and single-family detached lots less than 15,000 square feet. Additional supplemental use regulations for backyard chickens are also proposed. It includes prohibiting the keeping of roosters, turkeys, guinea fowl, and peacocks, following setback and building requirements for accessory structures, specifically the coops, prohibiting the locating of the coops in the front yard setbacks, and ensuring they are not visible from public or private roads. This includes repeating special Dylan Hooper millions of dollars, including non- Sims distance from沖繩, or игр, as long as the initial cost or fee does not House of Academia 24 peux ir cender anohn and p ca and or homeowner associations may further restrict the keeping of backyard chickens and chicken coops the planning commission held a public height sorry a public hearing on this item on december 17th and they recommended denial the item is presented to this body this evening for public hearing and following the public hearing staff is seeking a decision from the board of supervisors on this proposed ordinance amendment to allow backyard chickens in the rp zoning district as a by-right use i'm happy to answer any questions you may have thank you mr chairman thank you sir questions of mr klein anyone anyone thank you sir since a public hearing would anyone like to comment concerning these proposed ordinance amendments anyone mr chairman we have several signed up excellent laurie loge if you could share your name magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes or less please and i will note that we had several comments received electronically that were transmitted to you yesterday and today you did receive those yes welcome thank you pull pull pull it down just just pull it down there you go thank you okay can you hear me now yes you areolie loge opec and district thank you for allowing me to address the board of supervisors i ask you to consider the following questions before passing the backyard chicken ordinance can the current animal control and planning and zoning personnel handle an increased response to ordinance violations without additional burden to taxpayers hiring personnel time and money is the landfill or convenience like capable handling disposal of both animal waste and dead birds how will it be monitored will this bird scale zero years of sustainable Nigeria colostrum am�tans game management alone is reported as normal over the holidays as december 13th to feb 19th the royal animal services administrator dr jump'srasall it's a chaotic summer week for most of Will this burden taxpayers? Can Frederick County Animal Shelter handle abandoned chickens because chickens no longer produce the eggs or because the owner did not understand the magnitude or care and responsibility? Will taxpayers be burdened for increasing personnel and building footprint? Yes, this is a personal responsibility like dog ownership. However, Frederick County requires dogs to be licensed, but are all dogs licensed in the county? Do all dog owners clean up after their pets and are all pets never abandoned at the shelter? Also, Virginia has had 60 cases of human salmonella infections linked to backyard flocks as of December 17, 2020. What will be the impact on a restaurant, school, or health care facility if a poultry disease outbreak is a result of a backyard coop owner improperly handling while working in these establishments? How would a disease outbreak affect the most vulnerable citizens since the beginning of the pandemic? Are there any people susceptible to infection like our elderly, young, and those with a weakened immune system? Does a local state health department have the resources, personnel, time, and money to follow up on an outbreak considering the current COVID situation? Are local veterinarians or local state agencies capable of handling a poultry disease outbreak like avian flu and who bears responsibility? How will backyard coops impact adjacent property values when selling property? The purchase of a home is the largest investment besides your 401k or retirement plan, and some citizens count on this investment as a part of their retirement to take care of them. Will it distract buyers, reduce property value, and overall, will one magisterial district be impacted more than another if the ordinance is adopted and which will be impacted most? I believe passing the backyard chicken ordinance will result in the county spending more resources, monitoring and controlling, which also could negatively impact residential property owners and the community. Thank you. Thank you. Laura Pearson. Welcome. Welcome. I'm Laura Pearson. I'm in the Opechan District. I want to thank you for allowing me to be here. I want to thank you for allowing me to express my concerns regarding your proposed issue to allow chickens in a residential area. Excuse me. My firsthand experience, I've lived on a farm during my adolescence age from three until over 20 years old, and I can state that the maintenance and care of chickens is extensive, regardless of the amount that you have. The odors of the chicken excrement during the summer months is overwhelming, and it was bad enough on a farm. I cannot believe what it would be like. During the summer months in a subdivision, if it wasn't taken care of properly, and it would create a bad environment for the surrounding homes. In addition, animals that you don't want in a subdivision would be attracted to these chickens. That's a proven item. I'm concerned that if this is allowed, but they have addressed that they would put a restriction on other animals, but monitoring these chicken coops, they would, add maybe other animals like ducks or peacocks, guineas, and that. And then my other concern is, what is the expense to Frederick County to monitor this? And they would have to have someone that would have to go through the county and find out where these chicken coops are if they don't properly go through the channels to get the permits. And I think our county expenses and our technology, time is better spent on stuff that we need in this county other than chicken coops. And that's all I need. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Sherry Riley. Welcome. Thank you for allowing me to speak and address you tonight. I'm Sherry Riley from the Opecan District. Um, three years ago, I was the citizen who brought forward the request, to have the ordinance changed and allow backyard chickens in RP District. I was unsuccessful at that time. This year, when the pandemic hit, I decided to readdress this issue, to allow backyard chickens in residential. I think they're very beneficial. Self-sustainability is key right now with the pandemic. This provides that people with an opportunity to have some food. I think the proposed ordinance is very clear, very simple, very specific. Um, and I think it's reasonable. Chickens provide education, recreation, sustainability, and I, um, also revenue for the county with the permit. And I would really appreciate, um, you guys considering allowing this ordinance to pass. Thank you. Thank you. Patty Solenberger. Welcome. Um, I'm Patty Solenberger from the Shawnee District. Um, Chairman DeHaven and Board of Supervisors, I thank you for serving our community as you do. This has been very educational tonight. I thank you for the opportunity also to speak this evening. I sent an email to Mr. Klein voicing my support for backyard. Chickens. I found that those who fear backyard chickens are usually not very knowledgeable about chickens. At one time, the thought of having chickens in a subdivision was foreign to me as well. After reading up on it and actually experiencing it, I see it as a win-win for building our community and building community. Children and adults both get to learn where their food comes from and basic animal husbandry. An egg. Is the perfect food. It's ratios of fat protein and calories qualify it as a superfood. We shared our eggs when we had the our chickens with our neighbors and many backyard chicken farmers donate them to local food banks. Another win-win for building our community. Chickens are territorial for protection. I live near the country club. It's not unusual to see deer, foxes, skunks, groundhogs, raccoons, possums, and squirrels. Chickens do not bring predators to subdivisions or communities. The predators are already there. Chickens are quiet unless you have a rooster. There is no need for a rooster in backyard chicken farming because female chickens produce eggs without roosters as part of their biological function. And most people don't know that. I didn't know that before I researched chickens. I thought you had to have a rooster for eggs and that's not true. A rooster is needed for baby chicks. Backyard chicken farmers want eggs. They don't want baby chicks. Farmers. We had a chicken tractor. So it basically was like a wheelbarrow and it was contained and you could push it all over your yard. And that was pretty awesome because it provided fertilizer for our yard, but it also provided pest control. It's a very natural, holistic, pest control and fertilizer. The other thing about chickens is you don't have to feed them. They can eat whatever's in the ground, but most backyard chicken farmers take this on as a hobby and they actually want to buy feed and other goodies for their chickens. So this provides businesses business for our local feed stores, which is another win-win for our local economy. I encourage you to vote. Yes to this ordinance. And support building community and support backyard chicken farming. Thank you. Thank you. Fred Riley. Welcome, sir. My name is just pick it up. There you go. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Board of Supervisors. Thank you very much. I'm Fred Riley and the husband of Sherry Riley who brought this ordinance to the board three years ago. And it's been a, um, wait and see type of, uh, opportunity to see what, what makes a difference when you look at this, uh, um, having chickens in the backyard. And what I saw out of it was learning what other neighbors see from it. And the one positive that I looked at was the educational portion of seeing how the development of chickens, uh, happen. And yes, I grew up on a farm, um, had chickens. And, um, it's a matter of care and how you take the manage that. It's certainly it's going to be a challenge, but it's something that as you look at this pandemic that occurred, I'm in shortage of food to individuals that we saw last spring. I think this brought an opportunity. What we found because we still have chickens, but not at our home, at a legal location. And we found that those eggs were supplying us at a time when they weren't available to the market. So I support what Cherry has presented to you. And I certainly hope you will consider this as a positive and a yes vote. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Barbara Burrows. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. I'm Barbara Jean Burrows, resident of the Peckin district for 37 years. I started out in the Peckin district on a large farm in the double churches area where I raised many different breeds of chickens and other birds such as quail and pheasant. I have no no nice way to say this, but birds and the manure stink. I have been both sides of this problem. I have lived in Fredericktown since 2007. Due to my health about seven years ago or so. I had an adjoining neighbor get chickens for Easter for their kids. Let me tell you my yard stunk so bad. I could not even sit outside, especially after it rained or was humid. I had to call the zoning inspector and he sent a violation letter. They waited until the last day allowed to get rid of them to human nature being what it is. I think you're asking for trouble and neighborhood war. People who want chickens can move to the country. We don't need them in town. And I have a lot that qualifies to have chickens and I've already had problem with the smell. People when they get things like that or do things they put it right up on the property line away from their house and close to your house. They also don't realize that even though there's no roosters chickens cluck and carry on and fuss at each other. All day in the same spot. It's not like a flock of birds flying through your yard and they're going to another location. They're all there all day every day. They also attract foxes and raccoons, which is a rabies issue. People start to sneak in other animals. The people behind me that had the chickens also had a duck. They will go over the allotment. Even though you've said six they'll get 10. Oh, nobody's going to know that they got four more. And I'm going to say it since I've lived in the county 37 years. We do not police our subdivisions. Well, if you're in an older subdivision that does not have a homeowners Association, you got junk cars. You've got other things that are illegal in this County that this County doesn't do nothing about unless you call and make a ruckus about it. So there's already a problem with that and then you're going to add chickens on top of it. You know the people in the older subdivisions. Don't have a homeowners Association to help protect them. They've only got this proposal. And you know, it's already it's illegal. Now the Planning Commission has recommended against it and I feel like the NFL you're going to have to have a lot of evidence to overturn what's already on the books. So I'm just telling you from both ends of the problem and you can't tell me that it's cost-effective to raise your own eggs because I've had the chickens and by the time you build all of them. I'm going to have to do it. And by the time you build all of them. All the building materials and you go by your feet and you go by your feeders and your waters and your whatever and your medicines and blah blah. You can go to the store and buy a dozen eggs for a dollar. You know, and you don't need to have chickens to know where eggs come from. I mean, I was raised in Fairfax County and that's not a rural County, but I knew eggs came from birds and I knew a chicken eggs. So you don't need to have chickens to know that. And I'm sorry, but I'm just respectfully requesting you deny this. Thank you. Thank you, man. Shannon Atkinson, you know. Welcome. Pull it back up till it's comfortable height. Very good. Thank you. Good evening chair and Board of Supervisors. My name is Shannon Atkinson. Good. Now, I'm from the back Creek District backyard. Chickens have been growing in popularity. The current pandemic has only accelerated those trends, though. The board continues to grapple with this concept. Many localities across the country and surrounding jurisdictions have already passed chicken ordinances. Some of these areas include those with property values higher than that in Frederick County. It is legal to have chickens in Winchester, Berryville, Boyce, Clark County, Front Royal, Shenandoah County, Steven City, Warren County. Governing ordinances placed will address these concerns regarding rodents. Outside food attracts rodents, not chickens. That includes any food left outside. Dogs, cat, squirrel, deer, or even bird food. Additional items attracting rodents includes outside trash, recyclables, poor landscaping maintenance, and other items that attract rodents. Dirty grills, composts, and firewood. Worried about odor? Google this. A dog produces over 255 pounds of poop per year. A hen produces only 45. That's over five times more than your chicken. As far as noise, restrict roosters, though it's the neighbor's dog barking throughout the night resulting in more complaints than a chicken's cluck. Decreased property values. The state's state's state has a lot of problems with that. The state has a lot of problems with that. It's not just the state. It's the state. It's the state. It's the state. It's the state. It's the state. It's the state. Any poorly maintenanced house or yard influences neighboring property values. With rising interests in backyard chickens, some may prefer to buy a house where chickens are allowed. Establish enclosure regulations. Do not permit birds to run at large, but I bet more than once you've annoyed or found yourself annoyed with the neighbor's cat prints on the hood or windshield of your car. are. Afraid of disease? To provide some perspective, Frederick County's population is greater than 92,000. As of December last year, a month ago, a total of 17, well, 1,722 people from all 50 states reported being infected with salmonella. 576 of those reported having contact with chickens and ducklings. Enforcement would fall under the Animal Control Division, as with any other complaints and concerns. A task force of citizens and county staff can be created to develop an ordinance that will keep within communities' values. I strongly encourage you to pass an ordinance with guidelines allowing backyard chickens. Thank you. Thank you. That's all we have signed up, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Did anyone else wish to address this proposed ordinance change? Anyone at all? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment portion. How would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor McArthur. I would move for adoption of the ordinances written. Motion to adopt the ordinances presented. Is there a second? Anyone? I'm sorry, sir. Your motion will die for lack of a second. I understand. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'd like to make a motion that we adopt the motion as it has been presented with this change. That the area of land be a minimum of one acre instead of the .34 acres as has been proposed to allow for proper management of said chickens. Second. Motion and a second. Second. To approve with the amendment of one acre as opposed to 15,000 square feet. Is that accurate? That's correct. Thank you, sir. Second concurs. Thank you. Discussion? Anyone? Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. I didn't get elected to deal with chickens, and I don't think any of us did. So, Mr. Wells, you know, bringing this forward is an issue. But I want to make a couple comments. One, one of the constituents for Inupiaq raised the issue with Mr. Wells. He was gracious enough to say, you know what, I'm going to give you a chance to see what happens and go from there. So, Mr. Wells, I think on behalf of your constituents, you're serving them well, even though it's one person asking. Second comment. When you made those comments, Mr. Wells, a constituent of mine in Redbud said, Blaine, Dunn, you aren't supporting it? How dumb are you? You're terrible. I'll never vote for you again. Essentially, that was it. And here's the point. All of us try to go and listen to the data and analyze. And when I heard Mr. Wells make the comment, all I wanted to do was say, fine, I'm going to listen to the pros and the cons. I'll make the best decision I can with that data. And so when people automatically say, well, Dunn, you know, you're stupid, and some of you may agree with that, it's fine. But we go through an analytical process. And in that analytical process, I had some questions. I had some conversations with our county attorney, Mr. Williams. And here are my concerns on the project that is being laid out. If we adopt this today, even with this amendment, and if in a year or so we say, no, it's a bad situation, everything that's occurred has been grandfathered. My parents had chickens in a suburban area when my mom was a kid. She remembers taking chickens, taking their heads off, and going from there. I wasn't around. And today, because of some of the concerns that were raised, I'm not prepared to go and support this as written. I was hoping that we could have a pilot program, and I would have supported a pilot program for a year to see what could occur, see whether it was good stuff, bad stuff, et cetera. According to our attorney, if you have chickens and you enclose it, you cannot go and inspect. So I've seen two good comments, both pro and con. One was a letter from a woman. It was written in Stonewall, I believe. And the other was given here by the last speaker who made opposite comments. My problem with the comments is we cannot go into a home and say, fine, we have tons of chicken poop. Clean it up. We can't go into a home and say, fine, do you have four chickens, eight chickens, or two quails? And so for those reasons, I can't support this without a pilot program and without some type of a time limit. If it comes back at a later time with some restrictions, I might, but I can't do it today. Okay. Mr. Wells, on behalf of your constituents, I think they should thank you for bringing it up. And we all try to analyze, so I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you, Blaine. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes. I realize that the motion now is for it to be changed to an acre. Is that correct? That's correct. So in a sense, for me, representing the Shawnee District, it's not as much of an issue. It's a new issue for the vast majority of my constituents. The challenge that I have is understanding both sides of this new issue for me, and then communicating with my constituents about it in such a way that they have some input. That has not been provided to me, and I'm not on the board. If I had been here for the last two years, it might have been different. But I just feel at this point that I need to check back with the people that I represent. And for that reason, I will object even to the amended motion. Thank you. Further discussion to the motion? Yes, sir. Most everybody was from Ovechkin District, and that's my district. I've talked with all the board members. And talking with planning and the board, and so forth, I really was hoping, and I thought up until this evening, really, that this could be a pilot program, a one-year pilot program. And I was in favor of that, even with the lesser acreage. One acre would be even better. But I found out that that's not possible. Mr. Dunn, Supervisor Dunn and I talked about that. And so, and then the board, and so, and then the Planning Commission meeting, they don't pass it. And that's my group, my go-to group of fellows and ladies that say, this is what, you know, we're bringing to you and think you should do. So I have a hard time. I really wish that we could have come up with something, and maybe we can later on. But right now, at the present time, I'm hard-pressed to do it because it's a final. Right. Rather than a one-year opportunity. And I know Mr. Dunn came to me and said, maybe we could do it for one year in your district. And I said, maybe we could do it for one year in your district. And the law does not allow it to occur in either district. All right. We had a good chuckle over that. But anyway, that's where I'm at. I'm having a difficult time. Please. We are covered on our public hearing requirement, Mr. Williams. Aye. I thought we were. I thought we were. But just wanted to check. So any further discussion on the motion? Chairman. Yes, Sir. Supervisor McCarthy. I completely understand the nervousness and the reticence about implementing something like this. But I do look at the fact that this isn't a novel idea. There are hundreds, if not thousands, of communities in this country, there are thousands of communities in Europe that have the ability to keep a chicken in an area much smaller than what we're proposing here, and it works. And it really ultimately comes down to responsibility. down to responsibility. The same person who doesn't take care of a chicken isn't going to take care of their dog, isn't going to take care of their cat. And I've lived next to, in a townhouse next to a family who let the dog just go outside every day and the family never went outside and the piles piled up and piled up and it can become just as much of a nuisance as the chickens. So I know that there's a lot of mythology and a lot of fear about chickens. And as someone who has chickens, there's a big difference between keeping 20,000 chickens cooped up inside of a hoop house with blowers and the sun never shining versus six chickens on an acre of property in the grass where nature takes effect and keeps the smell away and all of that. I think it's a reasonable, I think Mr. Graber's amendment is reasonable. And anyone who's raised backyard chickens knows that it's not the same as going on a farm and trudging through knee-deep feces within one of those hoop houses that have 200,000 chickens crammed into it. As far as like the disease and things like that, there are studies, multiple studies that have been done that show that backyard flocks have a lot of chickens. And I think that's a big difference. And I think that's a big difference. And I think that's a big difference. And I think that's a big difference. much lower incidence of salmonella than the $1 egg dozen eggs you'll buy at the grocery store. You have a much greater chance of getting sick buying that $1 dozen eggs at the grocery store. The $1 dozen of eggs that's made in the factory farms also isn't going to do you any good because it lacks all the nutrition that the eggs from the backyard will have. So there's a lot, I think, of sort of old thinking. I've known a lot of old farmers. My grandpa was one and he hated chickens because he was the guy who had to go out there with the shovels and the shovels and the shovels and scoop out the chicken house. But that's not what we're talking about here. So you can't equate one with the other. So I hope that people can see that what Mr. Graber has proposed is eminently reasonable in comparison with what other successful localities, which were mentioned tonight. I was involved in Charlottesville over a decade ago, helping them get their ordinance passed. And it's been a huge success. There's no reason to think that the people of Winchester are any less responsible than the people of Charlottesville. So I hope you'll at least consider it so that the folks here in Frederick County have the opportunity to do that. And I think that's a big difference. I think the folks here in Frederick County have the opportunity to raise chickens in their backyard. The former ag teacher from, I believe it was James Wood, sent a letter out to everyone today encouraging us to pass this ordinance because he sees multiple benefits to allowing this ordinance to go forward, especially from an educational standpoint. So I hope you'll consider that as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? All right. Supervisor Stegmaier. Oh. I'm sorry? Sorry, you asked? We're voting. And my answer is no. Thank you. Supervisor McCarthy? Yes. All right. You'll have to bear with me a second. I had a pencil failure. Supervisor McCarthy is yes. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Thank you. Supervisor Wells? Yes. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Graber? Yes. Supervisor Graber? Yes. Chair votes no. Motion fails. That will bring us to 12B, the ordinance amendment to upgrade per the requirements of FEMA our floodplain ordinances. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. On January 29th, the end of this month, Frederick County will have new updated flood insurance rate maps from FEMA. So just a little background of what these maps are and why they're important. Now, these flood insurance rate maps, they are the official community maps that show the special flood hazard areas and the areas that have a risk premium zone. So flood mapping is an important part of the National Flood Insurance Program as it's the basis for the program and their regulations and insurance requirements. So flood insurance is available to property owners in Virginia, mainly through the flood insurance program from FEMA, which is administered by them. So community participation in the program, it is voluntary. I would note, though, in order to qualify to participate or buy insurance from the flood insurance program, the locality has to adopt a compliant flood plan insurance and be a part of the flood insurance program. So when a county does choose to join the program, the community, sorry, we must make sure that we do maintain a compliant flood plan ordinance. So when these maps are updated, we are then required to then update our ordinance and be compliant. So in Virginia, the Virginia Department of Conservation and Recreation, DCR, is the manager of the state's flood plan requirements and is designated as the coordinating agency by FEMA. So when maps are updated, as we're going through this process now with our January 2019, we are given a model flood plan ordinance from the DCR that does outline the minimum requirements necessary to maintain a compliant ordinance. If we don't maintain that compliance, the compliant ordinance, Frederick County would then lose our ability to participate in the flood insurance program, and it would fall back onto private insurance if someone's able to get that. So in the ordinance that's in your packet, there are a number of changes. The majority of them are really, moving around some information, consolidating. There's not a lot of changes actually in it. One of the main sections is a new change to add an allowance for accessory structures to be constructed within a flood plan. So just kind of following up with the DCR model ordinance, a copy of that also in your agenda, what we drafted our changes on meets the minimum necessary. There were, back at your previous discussion, before it was sent to public hearing, staff did point out, some of the DCR recommended higher standards. One was an 18-inch free board. Another one was a revolving five-year for substantial improvements. Both of those were taken out, because that was what the board sent forward for public hearing was the minimum, and that is what is in your agenda. So history of where this has been, the Development Review and Regulations Committee discussed this back in November. Planning Commission discussion back on December 2nd. It came before this body at your December 9th meeting. Planning Commission held a public hearing on December 17th, and they did recommend approval. So tonight, this is presented for public hearing, and we're seeking a decision from the board on this amendment. We'd be glad to answer any questions. Questions of Ms. Perkins, anyone? Comment? Yes, sir. Comment, no. Question, yes. I'll ask the question. Yes, sir. So, Ms. Perkins, in this proposal, I believe there's an additional opportunity for like 300 square feet below ground. That was not in the previous, which will allow for parking lots or garages, et cetera, to be added, correct? It's something that we talked about earlier today. There was a variance of stipulation for it, but the primary change is a 600 square foot allowance for garages and things of that nature that are uninhabitable or not used for residential purposes. Okay. Thank you. Questions of Ms. Perkins? Anyone? This is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning these proposed changes? Anyone? Last chance. We'll close the public comment portion of the meeting. How would the board like to handle this one? And now, any comment you might like to make? Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption. Yes, sir. We have a motion to adopt. Second. Second. Is there any further discussion? No, I will make a comment. Yes, sir. So, Ms. Perkins, I read through this in detail, so thank you very much for your time. I want you all to know that I took a half of our time, called her back on numbers. It was very helpful. It's not something we deal with every day, but I appreciate your going through it and explaining the differences between one side and the other and answering our questions. Thank you. Other comments? Anyone? No. Okay. Thank you. Other comments? Anyone? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stagmeyer? Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. That will bring us to Planning Commission No. Board Liaison Reports. Are there any? Anyone? Citizen comments. This is a portion of meeting that we set aside for citizens to share anything they would like with the Board. Is there anyone who would like to address the Board? Anyone? Yes, I'll do it. Well, you all work it out. . Sorry, we're not on speed yet. . . . . K några kisilostki? . . Mr. Chairman, members of the Board, Barbra Jean Burroughs, 37 years in the Opecan District. Before I make this statement, I would like to thank all of you for your service, and I'm sincerely sorry for the abuse that you have to take sometimes from the citizens. It's abundantly clear to me, sitting through this meeting, that you study the issues related to our kla أوcheren as a citizen and you'll understand what kind of benefits you're having. that are put to you and have some intelligent comments, be they yay or nay. I'm sorry that you have to suffer. You're going to have to bear with me because I feel very emotional. I wish to enter a statement into the public historical record of Frederick County, Commonwealth of Virginia, United States of America, as follows. On the date of January 6, 2021, the federal capital, the United States of America, was a target of an insurrection by the followers of President Donald J. Trump. I wholeheartedly urge the federal government to pursue and prosecute all persons and organizations that contributed to a siege that resulted not only in the destruction of property belonging to the United States of America, but also in the destruction of the United States of America. I wholeheartedly urge the federal government to pursue and prosecute all persons and organizations that contributed to a siege that resulted not only in the destruction of the United States of America, but also in the destruction of the United States of America, but also the untimely deaths of at least five people and the injury of many more. May God help us all in these perilous times. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. Hello. I am LaTosha Dozier from right here in Stephen City. And I wanted to address the denial of adopting Juneteenth as part of this locality's calendar. The motion died when no other supervisors decided to second it. It was incredibly disheartening to read in the paper that this Virginia state holiday was not adopted. It was also concerning as a member of NAACP and coming to the table, I am unaware of any healthy community conversations surrounding the importance of the state of Virginia. Although I believe that none of this discussion HDI does supersedes it. But there is no doubt that in 2020 as a region ofugal welcoming good will finish our national的 the state and federal government are as we continue to have our own values and priorities, that I would ask that we take an opportunity to revisit that particular policy to see if we might be able to make something that we have more of a say in, Stegmaier said. End quote. My first question to you, Supervisor Stegmaier, is who exactly are we? In the Winchester Star article, it regards your decision to not adopt and recognize Juneteenth as a holiday, exerted your ignorance to the significance of this date. Yes, Juneteenth is a celebration of slaves freed in Galveston, Texas, two years after the Emancipation Proclamation was delivered. However, we, as African-American people, celebrate with our ancestors their resiliency, their strength, and their power. Although you may not deem it as an appropriate locality holiday, your constituents, particularly those of African descent, feel strongly about the recognition locally, especially since it is recognized by the governor of Virginia. Lack of conversation beyond your seats with your constituents about issues that concern them, acknowledges them, and or celebrates them, proves that the power of your seats are more important than your constituents of color. In the article, Supervisor Dunn stated that he did not want to confuse our teens and high schoolers about the history of freeing our slaves. The statement concludes that, one, our young people are easily miseducated, and two, our school system is ill-equipped to educate our youth about the truth of our nation's history. Why can't we use Juneteenth as an educational tool for the locality as a whole? Our youth are incredibly, in their words, woke and open to diversity and exposure of culture. Through social media, TikTok, for example, I'm amazed at how our young people use these platforms to not only educate themselves, but some of us adults as well. Each holiday has a history, yet when it comes to what you may see as a trend due to this past summer's events, we as a people have been celebrating since 1865. This is not a trend. It is a moment to start shifting from uplifting the rebel confederacy to empowering, celebrating, and creating safe spaces for African American people in our country, our state, and especially our locality. Supervisor Dunn also said, if the county were to celebrate the emancipation of slaves, it should observe the anniversary of the 13th Amendment of the Constitution, which abolished slavery and involuntarily servitude. As an African American woman, I have not asked for options that you would be comfortable accepting. I ask for you to reconsider. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Anyone else? Thank you. Good evening. My name is Rebecca Lewis. I am the chair of the Political Action Committee of the NAACP. I speak partially on that behalf and partially as a resident of the Back Creek District, and I'd also like to speak on reconsidering putting Juneteenth back on the agenda for a soon upcoming meeting. The date of independence for many black people, they recognized that as June 19th, 1865, the day that the news of the emancipation proclamation finally reached some of the last people in America still held in bondage. The liberation Juneteenth commemorates is cause for celebration, but it also reminds us how equality can be delayed. On June 19th, 1865, on the shores of Galveston, Texas, Union General Gordon Granger arrived with a letter to the United States, and he wrote to the President, saying, I'm proud to be a member of the United States. by boat to announce to enslaved African Americans that the Civil War had ended and they were now free. While President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation was issued two and a half years prior, the Civil War had ended in April of that year. It wasn't until June 19th, 1865 that black people in America were made free. We should honor their lives and celebrate that day of freedom forever. From almost the moment that slavery began, there were many black people who were not free. The American people in the United States were not free. The American people in the United States were not free. The American people in the United States were not free. The American people in the United States were not free. When slavery's demise was declared in Texas, freed African Americans and their descendants have been celebrating Juneteenth, first in Texas and then across the south and northward as families migrated during the 20th century. The day has been a warmly celebrated occasion filled with reunions, parades, and feasting. Texas recognized it as a paid holiday in 1980. Today, 47 states and Washington, D.C. mark Juneteenth as either a holiday or an observance. The momentum to seize upon the day is something for all of America to celebrate is expanding in harmony with the mounting national demand for racial justice following the police killing of George Floyd. This summer, an estimated 15 million to 25 million people in 2,500 towns, cities, and counties, including Winchester and Frederick County, took to the streets after George Floyd's death. The sheriff's office, the county police, and the state police were all involved in the killing of George Floyd. The shared national exhaustion with inequality has reached a fever pitch, and a growing embrace of Juneteenth reflects that. Major corporations such as JCPenney, Nike, Spotify, Target, Twitter, and Uber have recently declared it a company holiday. New York and Virginia have just joined the states that are now reserving it as a paid holiday for their workers. It won't necessarily be easy passing this, but the last federal holiday that was passed to commemorate the life of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was proposed in 1968 and didn't become a reality for nearly 20 years. I would hope that it doesn't take us nearly that long to do the right thing and put Juneteenth back on the agenda for the next meeting and then pass it as a Frederick County holiday. Thank you so much. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much everyone. I'm into this. The Usership Guide will also request that panels from substandard programs now be realized, on´s behalf. However, we thank all of the testimony that is being printed on this群 to support this campaign. We welcome any questions that we don't get to answer. The word of the referendum is now being heard. Second drawing will now be approved. Thank you very much. Thank you. Final Muy же i do nglumar cheong, the Independent approach to cancelling COVID-19. Thank you. I will try to end this panel and all the concerns of this forum. When I take a small asymptomaれた on It will also be geben me a good opportunity to represent the parts of the space and it's all about our friend atomstery and Face. Thanks depths again.rance tonight. and embrace their self-pride and their identity. Juneteenth is an American holiday. The true independence of all Americans took place on June 19, 1865. If we are the United States of America, this is an important part in American history, and it should not only be recognized, it should be celebrated. My question is, how can we truly celebrate July 4th as the only Independence Day when hundreds of thousands of people were still enslaved? How is it that an all-white board has decided that a major day in American history isn't worth celebrating in Frederick County? If your ancestors were emancipated on this day in history, one assumes you would feel compelled to acknowledge it with a celebration, speeches, songs, and more. Taking a narrow-minded approach and path on this issue is exactly why I stand here. I am here pleading with this board to consider the necessity of deep equity training for youth, but as you can see here, adults need it as well. What must we do to achieve in this community to help recognize... I'm sorry. What must we do to achieve... I'm all flustered now, but may I add, that neither of the supervisors are black, and I wouldn't be able to tell you how you should feel as a person that's white. Equally, you cannot tell me how I feel as a person of color. You're diminishing the experiences of black residents, which is a problem. Some say Juneteenth is a Texas holiday. As minorities, we celebrate it as the end of all slavery. Juneteenth is the final and end. And I must add that black people are still experiencing a form of slavery through systems. I ask you to reconsider your previous decision and add Juneteenth to the Frederick County calendar to be recognized and celebrated. Thank you so much. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Yes, sir. Good evening, everyone. My name is Brian Nury. I'm a resident of the Opecan District. According to the Winchester Star, Frederick County declined establishing the observance of Juneteenth, the end of slavery in America as a county holiday. Despite a four to one vote from the Human Resources Committee in favor of that, the motion was made without the recommendation of the head of that committee. Ringing that bell most likely discouraged a second, and the motion died. Why? Now, Supervisor Dunn offered a solution. He stated that he'd prefer to see the holiday celebrated on the actual day that emancipation was declared either on December 6th or the 18th. But having another holiday in December, putting it in June would kind of spread it out, wouldn't it? I also applaud Supervisor McCarthy for suggesting to alter it and make it Emancipation Day, making it a holiday that's more relevant to the county. However, what I'm saying here, those are just pragmatic and rather minor points. The real matter is what we want to remember as a county. We want to remember that we are a county. We are a community. What is truly important to memorialize? To quote Supervisor Stegmaier, it just seems based on how estranged the state and federal government are as we continue to have our own values and priorities. Interesting. As a historian in training, I was curious as to what role emancipation played in our area. As it happens, in 2016, a doctoral candidate's thesis was presented at the College of William & Mary, titled, O Shenandoah, Northern Shenandoah Valley's Black Borderlanders Make Freedom Work During Virginia's Reconstruction, 1865-1870. The candidate at the time found that labor shortages here were filled by freedmen migrating from the Tidewater and Piedmont regions. Supported by reformers and the Freedmen's Bureau, the formerly enslaved became truly free people, not just emancipated dependents. This influx of labor actually revitalized the valley from a war-torn region into an area more productive than it had been even before the war. She also investigated the uneven oppression of the newly freed in this area. Local conservative opinions ranged from simply trying to deny them their civil rights, keeping them in a servile state, to a very few that tried keeping a white-controlled order that didn't actively resist them from settling. So I ask you, are these the values that we want to memorialize? The argument really seems to be that the values that we want to memorialize are not the values that we want to keep. The argument really seems to be the conflict that some imagine exists between Richmond and Frederick County. Just because it was passed into law by our General Assembly and declared by Governor Northam, what priorities are served by this? Therefore, I ask that this Board move to reconsider the motion to establish Juneteenth, or Emancipation Day, as a county holiday. Why not recognize the freedom that was given with the end of slavery? We celebrate our emancipation from colonial servitude. We celebrate our emancipation from colonial servitude. Can we not also celebrate the emancipation of the enslaved as well? Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Yes, ma'am. It's okay, take a breath. It's okay, take a breath. I come to you not prepared for what I'm about to say. I stepped out of this room for a moment only to hear the passion that was being said through those doors. I stepped out of this room for a moment only to hear the passion that was being said through those doors. I'm speaking on a whim, and I have to say I'm embarrassed that I stood here and spoke about chickens. The decision that the Board made to not recognize June 13th is a very poor decision. It's not recognizing the community of its whole. I'm chair for First Night Winchester, and we celebrate the diversity of the community. I'm chair for First Night Winchester, and we celebrate the diversity of the community. I'm chair for First Night Winchester, and we celebrate the diversity of the community. We publish our final dentro. We publish our final dentro. We plan ahead. All our associates and labor and leadership are what we say we will never forget. Our heart and soul are what quence theقدera da deca. Everyone is a part of these fragments of a wish we make for the great minority of West Virginia. Podcast breakout is not encouraged unless the erfi is with you tonight. So I hope that you guys will consider reversing your decision and making this possible. I think it's very important, especially in the state in which we're in right now as a country. I think you're doing a disservice. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Anyone? Last chance. All right, we'll close the public comment portion. Board of Supervisors comments. I might, Supervisor. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to take this off so it'll be a little bit more clear if that's all right. This is a point of clarification. I'm speaking directly to the group that was up. I'm just kind of waiting. It's okay. Point of clarification. At our last board meeting, a motion was presented to change the name of the state-mandated and Frederick County-approved holiday from Juneteenth to Emancipation Day. The motion died for lack of a second. Let me say that again. At our last board meeting, the motion was presented to change the name of Juneteenth to Emancipation Day. That was the motion. It is available by record if you'd like to look at it. I have a copy of it here. But that's what the motion was. And Supervisor Dunn brought it here and said, I'm bringing it before you, but I'm going to vote for it. He was not going to vote. He was going to vote for changing the name. That being said, it's evident from the passion tonight and everything else, there's a lot of misconception here. I've received a lot of calls, and I said, gee whiz, I must have been out in the left field and not understood what I was talking about. But I went back and reviewed with my fellow board members, some of them, and said, did I miss out? Did I miss out on this? And they said, no, that's what we understood, too. We were not in favor of changing the name to Emancipation Day. We were in favor of leaving the name as Juneteenth. Now, we celebrated, Frederick County put this on the calendar and celebrated it last year, 2019, and have every intention of celebrating it this year. 2021. I mean, 2020. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I missed out. I'm a year ahead of myself. But anyway, the employees were given the day off as Juneteenth. It was added to our calendar. So what has happened in the past is we have, we've followed since the 1970s, we've followed the state and federal guidelines. When one of those vacations or holidays. Is set in place. Frederick County's policy has been to add that into their calendar. And we have done that. If you go back and look, that's exactly what we've done. I think my, my, and I've told you what happened. So it, I heard what you said. I think there's misconceptions and misunderstandings. But Juneteenth is a Frederick County holiday. Now, that being said, we've had a real problem over the years. We have a list of holidays. We've had Veterans Day and they've changed that name and they've come up with a different name and so forth. So my suggestion to our board is to, when we do our holidays, that we simply just say that the Frederick County policy regarding holidays, including the holidays, is not going to be a problem. So we're going to have to change the name of the holidays, including approval at Juneteenth to be recognized and referred to not by title, but just as those holidays that Frederick County recognizes. That way, if the federal government, the state government decides to change the name, we don't have to have a board meeting to decide whether we like that name or not. It will just be that holiday that Lee Jackson Day is no longer Lee Jackson Day. So let's just celebrate the day that we're celebrating. And not worry about the name. So that would be my suggestion to the board that we do that in the future and that we move ahead and celebrate the holidays as they are presented to us by our state government and our federal government, with the option of adding days like we do for Apple Blossom. That's a local holiday that isn't celebrated anyplace else. So I think that's a good thing. And I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. And I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. Yeah, I think that's a good thing. And I think that's a good thing. So I'd like to leave that where Frederick County has the option if we want to adopt something just for our county, we can do that. So I'd like to leave that where Frederick County has the option if we want to adopt something just for our county, we can do that. Were you intending just to eliminate the list? Yes, the list of names. And confirm that we will follow federal and state declared holidays? Absolutely. And confirm that we will follow federal and state declared holidays? Absolutely. Plus the Friday of Apple Blossom and any other that this board might choose to adopt? Yes, sir. Is that it? My suggestion would be that we send that to the HR committee with that direction. Are there any other comments? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I feel like tonight is sort of like a serial of one issue after another where there's miscommunication because we're not talking to each other. The motion wasn't to change the name of Juneteenth. The motion came from the committee to acknowledge June 19th as a paid holiday for public employees. I'm on the Human Resources Committee, and at the Human Resources Committee, there were a lot of different reasons why people were concerned. And it wasn't – no one said, I don't want to celebrate emancipation or the end of slavery. That wasn't ever brought up as a concern. Some of the concerns were, okay, we already have a lot of paid holidays. Do we add it as another paid holiday? So it wasn't we don't recognize June 19th because the state recognizes June 19th. We have to, as a subordinate of the state, recognize June 19th. That's not the question. The question was. Should it be a paid holiday? The other concerns were, and as stated in the paper, the actual end of slavery took place six months later with the signing of the 13th Amendment. So should we celebrate that day? I think it's a legitimate question. Now, that isn't necessarily the answer, but until we have discussions, until we talk through these things and we talk to people in our community and we hear the different perspectives, I think that's the important part that we're missing is we may not come to a conclusion that everybody is happy with. But I think at least all of us here on this board, as far as I know you, we all believe that celebrating the end of slavery is a worthy thing to do. And we need to find a way to do it. That's why at that meeting, there was potential that that wasn't going to be forwarded to this board. And one of the questions was, a lot of people in Virginia don't know what Juneteenth means or what date it is. Before, two years ago, I had never heard the term Juneteenth. That doesn't. Mean that it's not a worthy holiday. It just means I had never heard of it before. And there's a lot of other people. So one of the concerns was the name. I wanted to make sure that it got to this committee or to this board. So I actually suggested we approve it. I was the one who made the motion. We approve it with the name Emancipation Day because it's pretty clear at that point what we're celebrating. Everyone that looks at that title. And maybe I was wrong. I don't know. But I wanted to make sure we at least got it here for the discussion. So I think this. I think, Supervisor Wells, you're sincere. When you say, I thought that we were changing the name. And Judy, you're shaking your head. I have. This is where I think if we. The world is so crazy and topsy turvy right now and everyone's under so much pressure. We don't even have the time anymore to really dig in and think about things and consider things clearly before we make decisions. We rush through things. I hope that we can sort of take a pause and say, let's take our time. Let's not rush into things. Let's do things the right way. Let's start to talk to each other. Let's have these conversations. I think it's great. That you came here. I think it's great that Michael phase on reach out to me. I think we have opportunities that we can talk through these things so that we can hear all the different sides, all the difference. The stories matter. That's the important thing, because if we understand the stories, then we can we can explain to people what are we really celebrating? I guarantee you, if you asked a lot of kids today, you know, what's the date of America's independence? A lot of them wouldn't know because it's become a day of hot dogs and fireworks. You know, we need to get back to talking about the story of why we do these things. I think. It's important that we have that conversation. So I just feel like hopefully working together, we can have these discussions. Sure. And before we decide to move forward with just saying, let's just eliminate the list. I don't think we should eliminate those. I think we need to be clear about who we are and what we celebrate. We keep a list. So I hope before we instruct the board or the committee to make that decision that we have that conversation first with the community. And that's why I'm going to have the town halls. I think that's a good start. And I'm not perfect. And I do the best I can. But I think and I know you all do, too. If we can start having that conversation first before we just say, well, let's send this back to committee and decide on this. Let's talk about it first. So that's all I would say before we before we do that. Supervisor Schlatter. Chairman, I prepared some remarks, too, because quite frankly, I was very troubled by the published article of the board's failure to act on the recommendation from the Human Resources Meeting Committee at the December 9th Board of Supervisors meeting. While the Winchester State Board is not doing anything to support the recommendation, the Board of Supervisors is doing everything it can to support the recommendation. So I think that's a good start. And I think that's a good start. And I think that's a good start. And I think that's a good start. The board's decision to add a county holiday. That issue is not what I understood the board was addressing at the time the motion was made. Since the article appeared, I have reviewed all information received in our Board of Supervisors packet, the motion made by Supervisor Dunn, the Human Resource Policy 8.2, and the video of our board meeting. Frederick County's current human resource policy. states the county shall observe federal and state holidays and other such holidays as may be prescribed by the Board of Supervisors. In fact, Frederick County observed the Juneteenth holiday this past year. What I believe the night of the meeting was that the board was being asked to recognize and refer to or in effect rename the holiday as Emancipation Day, not whether or not we were going to add Juneteenth as a new holiday. Supervisor Dunn made the motion on behalf of this Human Resource Committee as follows. The Human Resource Committee made a recommendation to change Frederick County policy regarding the holidays including approval that the Juneteenth holiday be recognized and referred to as Emancipation Day. On behalf of the committee and simply on behalf of the committee and this is in quotes, I'll make that recommendation although I do not support it. The motion died for lack of a second. At the time I was under the impression that the question before us was only the local referencing of the Juneteenth holiday as Emancipation Day, not whether or not we would observe the holiday or not. I believe the Board of Supervisors and the Board of Supervisors are in agreement that the Juneteenth holiday should be recognized as Emancipation Day. At all regardless of the title. The question in my mind before the board that night because we have a policy in place that says we will observe federal and state holidays, that is what I understood we were addressing. That was not the motion that was presented to us as to whether we would observe the holiday. It was whether we would approve the holiday or not. So I will say that the resolution of the Juneteenth holiday is that the holiday be recognized and referred to as Emancipation Day. Therefore, I did not make a motion or agree to approve that. That was what I understood I was voting on. Anyone else? Supervisor Dunn. Thank you all for your comments. I appreciate your interest in this. I hope that you will join us at the town hall meeting or meeting with those who are interested. I hope to join you at that meeting. I hope you would join us at that meeting so we can all sit and chat. I'm chair of the HR Committee and the committee voted to go forward with this. My concerns and I'll make some comments and then we can have a much larger and longer discussion when Ms. McCarthy has his town hall and you come. My concerns with Jim and I will be back in a moment. Thank you. My concerns with Juneteenth were as follows. I was born in New Jersey. Juneteenth freed slaves in Texas. But in July, August, September, October, and November, if you were a slave in the state of New Jersey, and there were about 16 in New Jersey, in Delaware, 1,700, in Maryland, in the District of Columbia, and in Missouri, if you were a slave there and you went to your master and said, I'm free, he would have said, no, you aren't. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. You're still a slave. The law says that you are a slave. New Jersey, ironically, was one of the states. Let me just walk through. On December 6, 1865, Georgia passed a resolution of the 13th Amendment, which was then set in motion two weeks later, Secretary of State Stewart saying, yes, I will verify this motion that all slaves are free. If you had been a slave in New Jersey in November, you were not free. If you were a slave in Maryland, you were not free. And so one of the questions we can discuss about later is, what do you say to people if they had been there in those states and they weren't free? And that was my concern on Emancipation Day on Juneteenth. I am glad that everyone's free. I don't think anybody should be a slave to anybody. But the historical accuracy is either December 6th, the date that Georgia said yes, or more importantly, December 18th, when the Secretary of State verified that, yes, the 13th Amendment is now ratified and going forward. And so that was my thought process. Those of you who disagree with me, I'll be glad to chat with you. It's a two-way conversation. But that was the thought process on that. So when Mr. McCarthy has his meeting, I hope to be there. I hope you can be there. And we can have a good conversation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Changing topics now, one more comment, supervisor's comments. On this issue of the radios, I will write something to all of you. Just laying out, you know, here are my concerns, here are my thoughts. Give you all the chance to go and read it. Mrs. Slaughter, I know you have a concern on time. I'll lay out a suggestion, a proposal. And, you know, we can address it as we go forward. So I'll just lay out my concerns. Lay out my thoughts. Lay out a proposed timeline. You can modify it as you see fit. And hopefully we'll be able to get a radio system that works for the county in a short time frame. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two comments. First, Saturday was Law Enforcer Appreciation Day. I would like to take a moment and say thank you to all those who put a badge on every morning and do their job to protect the citizens of this county. If you are a constitutionalist and are upholding the constitutional values as laid forth, I will support you wholeheartedly in the future, as it has been a very uncertain time frame this past year for many of you. I encourage you to uphold your oath. The second thing that I have is a question. It is an email that I received this last week, I believe, regarding a one-on-one school board meeting with our direct school board representation. I was very taken aback by the email. My school board representative and I speak. Pretty much every week, sometimes several times a week, to try to keep each other up to speed on where we are. The capital improvement plan projections have some very new things in them to include $100 million that they are requesting from this board, which is significant. I have a question for both the county administrator and the chairman of the board as to how we got to that discussion of the dates picked and that there would be simply... a one-on-one session instead of a open dialogue of the entire boards. If you are familiar, nine months ago, we asked for an open dialogue of both boards, for both boards to sit down and meet and have discussion. That has still yet to occur. I'm open to listening what the school board has to say, what their needs are, but I'm also open to knowing answers to the questions in which I ask, some of which I'm still waiting for, some of which they want $7,600 to give me an answer. I'm still scratching my head on that. So I'd like to ask our county administrator, did you have any input or was there any discussion on picking the one-on-one dates and that arrangement? How did that come to be in light of the repeated request of this board to have discussion and repeated comments from the chairman that we all get the information at the same time? Because I have a feeling if we have seven, different discussions with seven board members of this board and seven different board members of the school board, that we likely may not get the same answers to our questions and or we will not be getting the same answers at the same time, which I think disenfranchises all of us. So I'd just like an answer to my question, how was that determined? Who made that determination? What, how did that originate? So just for clarification on my behalf, did that come from Savine or did that come from the chairman of the school board? I have to go back and look at the email. It came from them. I also have a strong, reservation to think that an unelected bureaucrat being Savine makes decisions arbitrarily without any input or discussion from either board or body. And that is very concerning to me. I think it's time that we have some understanding of our boundaries and our rules. And it's concerning to think that we have folks who are making decisions for this board and trying to influence the outcome of those decisions and the manner in which they're using. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Let me, I have two comments to make. One in response to a constituent who wrote me a letter. But my first comment has to do with this whole matter of the holiday of Juneteenth and how we as a community in Frederick County and the Northern Shenandoah Valley handle a variety of issues and whether they are handled in a sensitive way or not. And I want to thank Supervisor McCarthy for, you know, for the opportunity to speak with you today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I just wanted to just take a moment to thank the questioner for his discussions with the new chairman of the NAACP and the fact that there will be this town. I'm sorry, President, okay. And that, to me, is, is what we should be doing more of. And that should not, that discussion that will be had shouldn't be the end of the discussion people feel strongly about. As many of us have pointed out just this evening, there's been a lack of communication that has really harmed us, and we need to make certain that we change the way that we operate and the way that we make decisions and the way that we communicate. I heard, and maybe I'm wrong, but that one of the things that Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King mentioned in a variety of things that I've read about him is that he disdained people who just did things in a superficial way. Sure, we'll just handle that just to get rid of the issue. Instead of dealing with the problem in all of its depth and complexity, and racial issues are especially difficult for us as an American family. I heard that the Virginia General Assembly bothered to wait until the election to have a decision to döp the vote. I heard that the Virginia General Assembly bothered to wait until the election to have a until the very end of the session to vote by voice vote to establish the holiday of Juneteenth. And that the governor did not spend a lot of sincere attention on that holiday that he passed. That to me is not the way that we should be doing things. And I liked the approach that we are taking here to have a discussion about it. Ultimately, I agree with Supervisor McCarthy. I don't think it should be Juneteenth, which is an inaccurate designation of the end of slavery. We should celebrate emancipation and celebrate the fact that the constitution, the basis of our society chose to pass the end of slavery for all of us in the end of slavery. That's why we should celebrate emancipation by the 13th amendment. So I, but that discussion can be had. And I'm looking forward to being on the Human Resources Committee that will give me, I think I believe I'm appointed to that will give me a chance to talk to others about that issue. I also wanted to say that I was troubled by the fact a letter that was sent to me. It was by a Shawnee constituent who insinuated that President Trump and members of the Republican Party organized a coup d'etat on January 6th at the US Capitol. That's his terminology. He also asked in that letter to report to the FBI any quote criminal and violent acts that took place on that day and he insinuated that some people of Frederick County were involved. He asked his elected representative that I make a statement condemning these actions and I would like to respond to him in in this way. I was very disappointed by the words I heard on television that President Trump uttered at the rally at which he did not take the opportunity to restrain the anger of those attending the rally. I was also troubled by the incendiary remarks I heard from donald trump jr. and attorney Rudy Giuliani. I Unfortunately, on that day, there were divisive comments by President-elect Biden that did not do anything to create a more peaceful atmosphere. There is no place for violence in our society, and especially, and I would say in the public sphere, but also in our private lives. We need to take responsibility for the amount of abuse that's taking place in our own families. And I would say that we need to be very conscious of how we handle things in the political arena, such as this gathering tonight. And I condemn all incidents of violence against all Americans in all forms and in all situations. However, I will ask my neighbor in the Shawnee District not to blame the irresponsible acts of a few hundred individuals on the approximately 100,000 American citizens in attendance. That day. And he insinuates, he should not also insinuate that the good law-abiding people of Frederick County and the northern Shenandoah Valley, who were on that bus that went into the D.C., were culpable for the violent acts of less than 1% of the people. And I will ask my neighbor in the Shawnee District not to blame the irresponsible acts of a few hundred individuals on the approximately 100,000 American citizens in attendance. Those from the Valley, as well as thousands of others, were simply exercising their constitutional rights under the First Amendment to peaceably assemble. Reasonable people of both parties are still confused about the poor preparations for a crowd of that size who were focused on the activities taking place in the city. And I would say that we need to take responsibility for the violence against all Americans in our society. We need to see how the police in the city are handling those attacks. And I would say that the police are handling those attacks. The security of the Capitol is with the Capitol Police. However, they are managed by a bipartisan group of House and Senate members on the House and Senate administration committees. Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader McConnell need to take the blame for this shocking lack of preparation. I must add that most of the citizens, such as the ones who participated in Winchester, who were exercising their constitutional rights to march peacefully this summer to protest the tragic death of George Floyd, were exercising their rights as well. And it was only a minority that had a, not in Winchester, but elsewhere, that had a violent agenda. Violence needs to be condemned wherever we witness it. And when violence and riots and looting took place in over 150 cities during the summer, hardly a peep was heard from Democrats. In condemning the violence led by Antifa and Black Lives Matter, whose Marxist beliefs espouse the destruction of our country, its government, and its history, and its constitution. We Americans, Democrats and Republicans, must unite. In committing to a political process that will never condone violence of any kind. I commit myself to this, and I invite my neighbor, who asked me to speak this evening, in Shawnee District, to make this commitment as well. Thank you for the opportunity to express myself. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir? I need clarification. At the beginning of the meeting, there was a comment made by yourself that there have been no appointments to committees. And last year, I was pretty much snubbed on any committee of importance. I just heard Mr. Stagmeyer make a comment that he was appointed to the Human Resources Committee until he corrected himself that he believed that he had been appointed to the Human Resources Committee. So I'd like a little clarification from you, sir. Have you discussed appointments to committees with anybody? Because it sounds to me like you have. And secondly to that, I know myself and a couple other supervisors I've talked to that I've asked about it, if they've heard anything about committees, had also likewise not heard anything. So it makes me really wonder if there's some underhanded stuff going on here. And my biggest question is, you have stated multiple times to me, sir, that we all need to hear the same information at the same time, and it doesn't appear that that's happening. Mr. McCarthy has done a good job. He's done a good job at laying out tonight that we have a dire need to have much better communication, and we have a dire need for us all to hear it at the same time. It appears some of that miscommunication and maybe under-the-table communication may be coming from yourself. I would really significantly appreciate being included on those conversations, into my conversation. That's enough of that. I had asked you for input on committee assignments. I got similar input from Supervisor Dunn. I got the thought that he would like to serve on HR from Dave right after he was elected. When we started, I said, you need to look at our committee structure, think about it, give me what input you have. I said this evening that I will have that hopefully in the next few days. I have been working on it. I haven't rescheduled. I haven't reviewed my worksheet with anyone at all. Fair enough. Thank you much. It is fair enough. I was not afforded the same. And I agree completely that we should attempt to make sure that every one of our members sees the same information from the same source at the same time. I have always felt that way. So my question herein lies again, as I made mention during my first comments. Mr. Chairman, why was the email permitted to move forward regarding the school board and board of supervisors one on one comments? Why was the comment made tonight that you had discussion with him about the Human Resources Committee? I as well put in a list of committees that I thought I could serve on, but I wasn't given that same conversation. So I'm a little confused here. We can agree to discuss this at another time, but it is very disheartening to me. That would be good. So I had one other on my list, if there are no other comments. I just have one really brief one. And I apologize, because I know no one wants to sit here any longer. So I will answer the question. No, no. We're here. Supervisor Graber, I respect you. You know I respect you. And I know that you have admitted to me that sometimes you can go a little bit over the top in your comments. And I appreciate that you're humble enough to say that. And I think I agree that I have a lot of questions, just like you do. I hope that we can get to the point that before we make an accusation, that we ask the question, let the answer come, and then we can accuse them of one thing. So I hope you understand, I respect you more than probably most people that are sitting at this table. I really do. But I hope that for us to move forward, that before we accuse somebody, that we – I mean, you can make the statement and say, I didn't get the same treatment. Why is that? Without saying there's underhanded stuff going on. I didn't say that there was underhanded stuff going on. So just as a colleague to a colleague, I appreciate your hard work. I appreciate that you really do. And I hope you don't take offense at this. But I really hope for us to move forward that we can get at least beyond that small part of the accusation. Because I don't know what's in any of our hearts. I just know that when something's not done properly, I can call it out. But I don't know who's being honest or dishonest, what's in the heart. So that part, I think, is really what stings sometimes. And if we can get beyond that, I think it would be helpful. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. If there's no one else, I had a request from a constituent that the planning department might send to the DRRC, ask for a discussion about the potential of adding boat repair as an option for a conditional use permit application in the RA. The definition needs to be looked at. We permit automobile repair in the RA as a conditional use permit potential. Boat repair is not mentioned anywhere. It made sense to me. I'm asking if anybody would object if we see if planning would study that. That's a good idea. Thank you. That was all I had. Does anyone else have anything? Vice Chairman Wells. Mr. Chairman, I move that we adjourn. Second. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. We thank everyone for their time and attention and their input. Thank you, Madam Chair. The floor is now open. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Chairman, may I ask for a motion to approve the proposal? So moved. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Thank you. Thank you, Madam unattback. Under courtesy of Chip Frangel, FAFSA. Commissioners. Ms. Frangel, what can we do about the file lower value. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
