Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2024-01-10
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=207
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Shall we bow our heads in prayer? Most good and gracious God, we thank you for the opportunity to gather today to provide for the conducting of the business of the people of Frederick County. Father God, you have stated in your word in Proverbs 29, when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice, but when the wicked rule, the people groan. Father, we pray that the men and women you have placed into leadership today will seek to do your will in the decisions that are before them. We pray that you will guide and direct them. Give them wisdom, discernment, and may your hand of peace and protection be upon their families. We ask and pray this in Jesus' name. And all God's people would say, amen. Mr. Vice Chairman. Mr. Vice Chairman. Mr. Vice Chairman. Mr. Vice Chairman. To the God of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice. For all. We'll vote down the line by preference. The floor is now open to the board for nominations. Do we have any? Vice Chairman Blaine Dunn has been nominated to serve as vice chair. Do we have any other nominations? Mr. Chair, I nominate Supervisor Slaughter for vice chair. Thank you. Supervisor Judy McCann Slaughter has been nominated to serve as vice chair. Did I miss any other nominations? Very good. So I'll now call out the. Mr. Chairman, can we make some comments before you have your vote? I believe we can. This is not a motion, so there's not a normal comment period, but if you'd like to, go ahead. I'd like to make some comments. Others have said that I've done a great job as vice chair, in the last year, and as acting chair during the last five months. I'm a conservative on policy issues. I'm pro-life, I'm pro-second amendment. I co-authored the second amendment resolution passed by this board in 2019. I'm the only supervisor to speak against the gun ban restrictions in Winchester City Council in 2022. I wrote the right to work resolution passed by the board in 2020. I'm in favor of school choice. I made a proposal to reduce county debt in 2023. I've testified before the Virginia State Senate on impact fees and how to adjust the population growth in this county. I'm the only supervisor who have attended the VACO high growth coalition to try to address county growth here. Some have said I'm a liberal because I supported a fire station and an extra ambulance toward Lake Frederick, with all due respect, that was to reduce response times. I'm a conservative who works with people and tries to achieve what is best for Frederick County. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Anyone else want to make any comments? Very good, then we'll proceed with the vote. I'll start from one end. Supervisor Jewell, I'm sorry, you just give the name of the person who is your preference for vice chair. Supervisor Jewell. Supervisor Dunn. Supervisor Slater. Supervisor Slater. Supervisor Wells. Supervisor Dunn. Supervisor Dunn. Supervisor Lockridge. Supervisor Slater. Supervisor Liero. Supervisor Slater. The chair votes Supervisor Slater. The Supervisor Slater has voted. Who has been elected to serve as the vice chair? Congratulations. Congratulations, Mrs. Slater. And would you proceed with the next item for A2, adoption of our rules of procedure? I did want to make a comment before you do. So the public isn't always aware, we have rules of procedure that we follow. A short version I'm sure we posted. It includes some citizen responsibilities in attending this meeting and when you get to speak. I've seen a lot of confused people in the past, so I just wanted to make one comment before we proceed. You get multiple opportunities to speak. We always want to hear every citizen. We have Chairman DeHaven had established a system where we don't cut it off if you haven't signed up, although we very much encourage sign up because the nights can run long. And there are certain circumstances where if we have the right count, we would have to cut down the time. When you speak, at the beginning, you address an item on the agenda that's not a public hearing. Later in the meeting, you can sign up for special items that are public hearings and address it right before we consider. So it's better to speak on those then. At the end of the meeting, you can speak on any subject you want, even if it's not on the agenda. We have the rule where you address the board. Robert's Rules of Order constrain how we operate. If you ask us a question, sometimes people do and they're very well meaning about it, but we're not allowed to answer questions. We can only take your questions under advisement for future consideration. Always contact us before a meeting if you want to have a discussion before we vote on something. You're also not allowed to address each other by name or turn around. That's just so that we don't have arguments occur and the people's business get delayed. We do not demean. People can be removed. I don't remember a case where that's happened, but we don't make demeaning or insulting comments to the board, to each other, about people's family, about their behavior. That's not relevant to the business. We try to think of this as a business meeting, present your business, and again, always contact us if you want to have a further discussion afterward. We just have to do that or we'll never get done in some nights. We have multiple public hearings tonight, so this might be one of those nights we need to move along. So with that said, please, Vice Chairman Slaughter. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Motion for I would move that the board adopt the Rules of Procedure originally adopted by the Board of Directors. The Board adopted by the Frederick County Board of Supervisors on May 28, 2003, amended through today, January 10, 2024. I further move that the board adopt Robert's Rules of Order, simplified and applied. Second. Thank you, we have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Please. I'd like to make an amendment to that motion. I'd like to have the removal of Article 5, Conduct of Business, Section 5.5, Scheduled Presentations from the Board of Supervisors. Residents already have a three minute timeframe in the beginning of each meeting to discuss any topic. Removing this topic does not limit free speech. Also, this is a business meeting, not an open forum for any topic by any person. Rod Williams, our attorney, has indicated that the courts have upheld meetings such as the Board of Supervisors meetings as business meetings and not open forums. Therefore, I'd like to make an amendment to that. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a motion to remove Section 5.5 from the county organization. Thank you. Thank you, Supervisor Dunn. Do we have a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. So we have a motion and a second. Discussion? Would any member of the Board of Supervisors like to opine on removal of this section? This section allows a citizen to apply to make an independent presentation on his own subject. So, Mr. Chairman, from... The reason I made the suggestion was that we're trying to do business meetings. It's not an open forum, and so I think that this would be more appropriate. If we give an open forum to anybody on any topic, this becomes different than a business meeting. So for that reason, I'm trying to keep it as a business meeting. I appreciate your idea, and I've heard other concerns about what might come to the Board. I'd like to see us not lose the opportunity to hear from citizens, even in this extended way, though. Thank you. Thank you. Maybe we should consider revising it so that if people want to create an agenda item of their own and present, that they would go through a supervisor. Maybe that's one way to do it. And so a supervisor would have to sponsor an item to be added on the agenda. I don't know if we already basically have that power. I believe we already do have that. But for example, if John Doe wanted to get up here and talk about why Adolf Hitler was a great guy and killing Jews is wonderful, I would say he can do that on his own terms. But on ours. And there are other areas where you have the opportunity for somebody to come and do that. If a supervisor wants to go and make comments, they have that opportunity. So I think they already have that opportunity to make a comment if they so desire. I'd like to make a comment. Yes, please. I was going to ask that same thing. So somebody can already come through us, because I've had, when we were talking about the towers, and I think we went through administration, and they absolutely got to present. So I don't want to take this. I don't want to take this off and then not have that opportunity. But that would still be able. I'll ask Rod or the county administrator. As a single supervisor, can we add items to citizens who want to speak, assuming that we've vetted the material in advance? I'll take it. I think it's always the prerogative of the board. I mean, the board has board comments. And I don't think it's a. Stretch for, as well as county officials. And I don't think it's a stretch for the board to allow a presentation under county officials. So I think it does raise perhaps a question about whether 5.5 really serves a purpose, since the board has that avenue. Mr. Chairman. Thank you. That was my only concern. If we have the right to do that, to represent our citizens, then that makes sense. Well. I just want to preserve the ability for citizens to make their own presentation while I'm aware of, I understand Supervisor Dunn's concern. So I wanted to get all that on the table before we vote. Are there any other comments on this motion? So the motion is to remove that part of section 5. What is it? 5-5. 5-5. So we first vote on the amendment. And then we'll vote on the amended motion to approve the rules of procedure. So first on the amendment. And a yes vote means that you agree with amending it to take section 5-5 out. Are we ready for the vote? Supervisor Liero, yes or no? Yes. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The chair votes aye. And the amendment passes. Aye. Supervisor Litoff? Aye. So now we have the amended motion. Any discussion of the amended motion? Acceptance of the rules of procedure with section 5-5 removed. Any discussion? Very good. So we'll vote on that now. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion passes. Vice Chair Slaughter, would you go to the next item? Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, I move that the board elect the county administrator as parliamentarian. And that is the motion. Thank you. Do we have a second? Second. Sorry. We have a motion and a second for appointment of the parliamentarian. Any discussion? No. Very good. So we'll go straight to the vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The chairman votes aye. And the motion passes. Item 4A4. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. I move that the second and fourth Wednesday of each month at 7 PM. OK. In the Board of Supervisors Meeting Room, County Administration Building, 107 North Kent Street, Winchester, Virginia, be the time and meeting place for the Frederick County Board of Supervisors for 2024, with the exception that the second meeting in November and December not be scheduled because of the conflict with the holidays. I further move that should a meeting be canceled due to inclement weather, it will take place on the following evening. Thank you for that motion. Do we have a second? Second. So we have a motion on the floor that establishes our time and place of regular meetings. I'll just note that that is consistent with how we've done it in past years. There's no change there. Any discussion? Very good. Then we'll proceed to vote. Hopefully, I'm remembering to alternate here. I'm not being unfair to the new members at the end of the board. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion passes. The last item under organization for 2024 is the Chairman's Annual Committee Assignments. The Chairman has the right to make assignments to the standing committees under the board. These are not all the boards by far that the county operates. We have many boards on many subjects, but there are some standing committees, to which we're going, and we're going to have to make assignments. I have made assignments to the supervisors, where they will vote or be liaison on many boards, and those have been distributed today. And citizen member assignments have also been presented to the county administrator. He will extend official notification to those citizens appointed. Because our meeting is in the middle of the month, I would suggest that any chairman of a board, who is not clear, has not received the information on who is assigned to his board, please contact me, or the county administrator will let you know, especially if you have a meeting coming up in the next few days or early next week. We want to make sure that everybody connects, gets the invitation, and is able to participate. So those assignments are all given. Item five is adoption of the agenda. I would let the board like to handle the draft agenda for today. Mr. Chairman. I would move for removal of item 13B, Jordan Springs. The applicant has requested to table the public hearing and action on Comp Plan Amendment 02-23 for Jordan Springs. Even though I was ready to prepare to make a vote on that this evening, the applicant has requested that. So I would make a motion to adopt the agenda, with the removal of item 13B. Thank you. Do we have a second? Second. I'll second it. We have a motion. We have a motion and a second. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to amend her motion. I'd like to say that on 13D, as in Delta, on the Sargent property, I'd like to say that we have the public hearing, let the applicant make the presentation, but not take a vote for two weeks. This is an area that's in Mr. Leroux's district, and it's not a public hearing. He has had two days to go and become an incident supervisor. He has been up 29 hours a day, 17 days a week. I'm being facetious. And so I'd like to give him the opportunity to go and do the necessary review that he needs to do so he can make an intelligent vote. And if I were in his position, I would ask for the same. So therefore, I'd like to say that on 13D, the Sargent property, that we go and have the applicant make the presentation, hold the public hearing, but then in two weeks, vote, and then, in two weeks, vote. So I'd like to say that on 13D, the Sargent property, that we go and have the applicant make the presentation, hold the public hearing, but then in two weeks, vote. But then in two weeks, vote. And in that interim two weeks, when the person comes back in two weeks, the applicant can then answer any questions that Mr. Leroux or anybody else might want to have. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Supervisor Dunn. Do we have a second? Second. So I take it then that you're fine with that delay? That is correct. That is correct. Thank you. So the first order of business is to vote on the amendment. Well, so we've had two amendments. We've had an amendment. Should we have voted on the first amendment, or do we just continue? Mr. Chairman, I think that Supervisor Slaughter's motion was to adopt the agenda with the one item removed. And then we had an amendment to alter another piece of the agenda. So if I want to alter something on the agenda, I should pile on right now? Yes. Yes. Perhaps. It's a little confusing to do it this way, but I was remiss in making... I believe Mr. Chairman, you're right. I believe Mr. Chairman that we vote on this amendment, and then if you have a second amendment, you're welcome to do that. Okay. Very good. So then any discussion of the amendment? So then if we're ready to vote on just the amendment so far to the motion, I'll go down the line. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chairman votes aye, and that amendment is accepted. As Chairman, I'd like to make another amendment. It's my opinion that all Board and Committee vacancies that we have should be posted to the County website, and the relevant supervisors if the vacancy is in a particular district. And all of this done at least two weeks in advance. That's a good point. I think we need to be aware that the public has a chance to be aware that they might be able to participate in their county government in a certain way where they might bring special skills we don't even know about. There was an unscheduled vacancy that had occurred for the Hanley Regional Library, and I don't know what the reason was. I think it was a matter of time before the Board of Directors and the City of Hanley had a meeting with the Hanley Regional Library Board that was not advertised by the County because someone who knew of it volunteered immediately for the position. I would like this Board to consider delaying item 10A until our next meeting to give citizens the time to apply and be considered as well. This is an appointment to the Hanley Regional Library Board. So any people who care about the functioning of our libraries might want to consider applying. I've already received one application, but they didn't know of our deadline, and they missed technically the deadline. And I've been contacted by another individual who's considering applying, but because we moved hastily, in my opinion, they don't have a chance to be considered by this Board. So with that said, my motion is to delay item 10A to our next meeting. Do we have a second? Second. Thank you. So we have a motion and a second. Is there a discussion? Mr. Chairman, was this advertised? I checked with the County Administrator's Office and it was never advertised. And the vacancy occurred immediately before Christmas, and so it made it even harder for the public to be aware for the news to get around that this was an opportunity. Okay. Thank you. Okay. It's a process thing. It's a no comment on the person who's applied, merely that we should advertise. Right. Well, that's where I was, I mean, that's exactly what I was going to comment, because the person who's applied is well qualified and an excellent person in this community. But, okay. We may well decide on that, but I like to cast the net as wide as we can and get as much citizen involvement as possible. Okay. At least that's my argument for it. Any other comments? Are we ready to vote? Great. I think it's the turn to start with Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. The Chair votes aye, and that amendment passes. So we're still considering the agenda for today. Are there any other amendments? Mr. Chair, can I ask a question? Did we vote on 13D then? Yes. You all lost me on that one. That was part of the original motion to pass the agenda without that in it. Okay. Now we've added three amendments to alter other things in our agenda for today. Now that all the amendments have been approved, we're ready, if there's no more discussion or any more to be added, to vote on the final motion, which is the agenda with all those approved changes. So is everyone ready? Hopefully, again, I'm in the right order. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Chairman votes aye, and we have an agenda. So let me scroll back to the next item. Next on our agenda. Okay. Next item on our agenda is citizen comments. These are for, this is intended to be for items that are on our agenda today, but that are not public hearing items. If it's a public hearing, you'd rather speak then when we're considering that item. Because we took one thing off the agenda, if you were here and hadn't gotten notice that it was going to be removed, if you were here to speak on the Jordan Springs public hearing. Although it's not on the agenda anymore, you are welcome to speak during this first session of comments so that you can get, your voice can be heard and then you can move on with your evening. So, with that said, Anne, do we have anyone signed up? Rick Agosta. Present. Thank you, sir. When you speak, please move the microphone to what's comfortable to you and give your name and magisterial district if you know it. Good evening. My name's Rick Agosta. I'm in the Gainesboro district and I'm pleased to be here to talk about something near and dear to my neighborhood and that is Isles Lane and the Oaks-Obradic crossing. I have my neighbors here behind me and I would ask them to raise their hands so you can recognize how many are here to support this discussion. Thanks, guys. I'd also like to thank the Board of Supervisors for the work you do and the support that you're providing to the citizens of your districts. Okay, so the bottom line up front. The citizens residing on Isles Lane and the Oaks-Obradic crossing request the Board approve the request for appropriations to allow the county to administer the repair and completion of Isles Lane for inclusion into the state's secondary road system under the operational control of the Virginia Department of Transportation. With that in mind, I have several points I'd like to make. The original letter of credit was for over $450,000 and later was reduced to $71,825 as referenced in the county memorandum by the zoning administrator dated 3 November 2023. With the line of credit reduced in 2021, also indicated in that memorandum, the county stated, the road was completed. And that being the case, why wasn't Isles Lane immediately surveyed and turned over to VDOT in 2021, 2022, or 2023? VDOT provided the county a list of deficiencies in June of 2023 when they surveyed the road, and they listed the items that needed to be corrected. Homeowners that live on Isles Lane can identify 16 or more of the following deficiencies. The county's county department can identify 16 or more of the deficiencies. The county's county department can identify 16 or more of the deficiencies. The county's county department can identify 16 or more areas on Isles Lane that were marked by VDOT during their survey that clearly shows erosion, settling, and cracking. And I have provided pictures of some of those to Heather so that she can share with the board. The road has deteriorated over the past eight years and will continue to deteriorate until fixed and turn over to VDOT for operational control and maintenance. The county public works estimates it will cost $330,000 to complete the road to VDOT standards. Waiting to complete the road will only increase in expense, creating a greater burden on the taxpayer. As my time should be close to being expired, I will yield to the next speaker. I thank you for your time and attention with regards to Isles Lane and the Oaks-Abratics Crossing. Thank you. Ellen Agosta. Good evening. I'm Ellen Agosta and my husband has just spoken to the road conditions on Isles Lane, but I'd like to speak to what we as members and homeowners of the Oaks-Abratics Crossing and Isles Lane bring to the table. The 18 houses on Isles Lane have a very high road toll. The 18 houses on Isles Lane have a very high road toll. The 18 houses on Isles Lane have a very high road toll. The 18 houses on Isles Lane have a tax assessment value of over $10 million and paid $54,930 in real estate tax revenue in 2023 and almost an equal amount of money in personal property tax to the county. One homeowner shared that he paid over $10,000 in real estate and personal property tax in 2023. One homeowner shared that he paid over $10,000 in real estate and personal property tax in 2023. The owners of Isles Lane have been paying taxes starting eight years ago with increasing revenue yearly as homes have been completed. This is a considerable sum of revenue over the past 10 years by our neighborhood and will continue to be assessed and generated on a yearly basis. and we have only three home families in the subdivision that have children in our County Schools. Prior to this past Sunday we were concerned about snow removal because in the past it had been done by the developer and had not been turned over to VDOT. We were pleased to learn that a contractor, a cut above, was contracted to remove the snow on Isles Lane by the County. We thank you for that. That took a big burden off of our minds. To wrap this up, this is not a civil matter nor an emotional decision. The residents of Isles Lane and Braddock Crossing have bought a home in the Oaks of Braddock Crossing, not a road. However, when we did purchase our homes it was with the understanding that the road would be completed upon completion of the subdivision. We, the residents and taxpayers of the Oaks of Braddock Crossing, encouraged the board to approve the appropriations request immediately so that the County Planning Development Office can oversee this project through to completion and coordinate Isles Lane's expansion. This concrete сделage will be planted in a new playground countrymusic settings located in Braddock Terrace at Àles Lane Park on the Barthou hideway and is authoritative of the economic glory bears that the land will be part of. Thank you for bringing us to this next symposium. Rik McGelgett Jim McGelgett Jimmy McGelgett James McElPERY Thank you, Rick weird reiterate that with the county allowing that bond to be lowered whether that was a good decision or bad if it had not occurred I wonder whether we'd even be having this discussion today and I would like to point out that should the county choose not to spend the money which is certainly within your discretion we're the ones that are gonna have to deal with it so I would just ask you to consider that and that we didn't have any input on that decision also like the point out the condition of the road right now absent any intervention it's as good as it's gonna get and well I think the cost was three hundred thousand although I think there's some I wasn't sure about the numbers it's only gonna go up from here the current economic situation with inflation I think we're all aware of that just go to Walmart it doesn't look like it's gonna go down anytime soon also when we have these freezing thaw you cycles because that road is compromised now it's gonna continue to be compromised so that in the future should the county ever decide to take action on that it's gonna be even more expensive and then finally as far as turning this road over to the Commonwealth I think myself I know but I would has posit that most of the taxpayers of the county would say the sooner we put it onto the Commonwealth the better that's one less liability that the county has to worry about so I think we need to focus on that the folks that are absolutely committed to you the�� varieties in the county for yourself having a mayor and everybody has to do at least it because one looking at house work you can look at your parent s office built it looks at all the things that you're the mayor and the people you're dealing with like everything out there I think we have toмkay give the party a chance man everybody has had it's okay to shine your own light turn around aル moeten is concerned about reduced listen to us. So whichever way the decision goes, I think they need to be recognized and you're lucky to have them. Thank you. Thank you. Robert Gallilee. Robert. Robert Gallilee, Back Creek District. The first thing I want to do is tell a quick story about an experience I had working in Quantico, Virginia on a massive government project. Building a huge, huge building down there. We worked for a contractor. We went into the building. The first thing, the building had to be rented. We had to raise the ceiling so that we could do the work that we were going to do. And the work that we were doing was to build mock-ups of all the possibilities for the government, you know, the offices, cubicles and everything else that the government could select. During that process, I found a receipt for all the things that we produced. I found a receipt for all the things that we produced. I found a receipt for all the things that we produced. I found a receipt for all the things that we produced. I found a receipt for all the things that we produced. I found a receipt for all the things that we put in. And it was over a million dollars, plus the labor, plus the building, all that stuff. And after we completed work in the building, we were told to deconstruct everything that we built and take it to the landfill outside of Quantico. And so we took all that stuff to the landfill, throwing away brand new stuff, over a million dollars of taxpayer money. As we drove up that landfill, one of the times, it was multiple trips, but as we drove up, There was trash that had basically become a peak of this trash mountain with a broom sticking out of the top. And perched on top of that broom was a bald eagle, symbol of American freedom. So as I'm going to throw away people's lifetimes of paying federal income tax, just throw it in the trash, the symbol, you know, one of the main symbols for America is sitting on that trash pile. So it was at that time that I figured out that working government contracts was not for me. That wasn't something I could do. I couldn't go to work and throw away people's lifetimes of tax dollars and just have nobody care about it. So the subject I want to talk about now is the appointee for the Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Board. To my knowledge, my understanding is that for an appointee to be on the agenda, it needs to be submitted. About two weeks prior to the meeting. Today's January 10th. Our new supervisor, you know, has been a supervisor for less than two weeks, I think. So it seems like this arrangement was pre-made. Like it was all ready to go. And so that could be that it was pre-made, or it could be that Mr. Jewell has brought extreme efficiency to the people of Frederick County, and we would thank you for that. But what it appears to me is that our residents, our residents did not have the opportunity to know that the position was available and to submit applications for that position. I don't question the new supervisor's integrity, nor the appointee's integrity. But I do not feel that she represents the people that reside in Shawnee Land. I think it's safe to say on average that we have little faith in government in Shawnee Land. The appointee proclaims 40 years working in government, and that she wants to provide a behind-the-scenes insight into how government functions. When I go into a porta-potty, I don't like looking down. I don't need insight into what happens behind the scenes. The results are apparent. More government is not good. Shawnee Land should not be controlled by the government. And I ask that we at least put it off, the appointment ship, so that we can try to find somebody in Shawnee Land to represent us. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Would anyone else like to speak? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations, Ms. Slaughter, on your appointment to Vice Chair. I know that you will do very well. Sean Graber from the Back Creek District. I'd like to speak on 9C if I might. There are many residents who live in the same district that I do that pay a fee annually to have their roads maintained. They pay to have their roads maintained, they pay to have the roads snow cleared, they pay to have the roads have asphalt added or rocks added every year, depending upon what the road needs are. While I'm very sympathetic to what has been described here this evening on Isles Lane, I also understand that the fine folks in Shawnee Land are going to be paying twice. They're going to pay the nearly $1,000 to have their own roads maintained, and they're also going to pay to have the subdivision on Isles Lane, the Oaks-Braddock, the Oaks-Braddock Crossing subdivision, to have their roads maintained. While I'm sympathetic that the county did make a mistake in how this bond was reduced, I don't believe that it is the responsibility nor the duty of fellow taxpayers to make up for that mistake. While it would be painful at times for the fine folks of Braddock Crossing to have to come together and to form, whether it be a sanitary district or a homeowners association, to cover this, it can be done. That had to occur, and it has to be done. In Shawnee Land, in order to maintain the roads because of a similar situation, a contractor who went bankrupt, there had to be a sanitary district or homeowners association, originally, designed in order to maintain and upkeep the roads. It is simply unfair to ask all the residents of the county, especially those folks who are having to pay for their own roads already, in Shawnee Land, to pay twice. To pay for their own roads, and then to pay for someone else's. Do we issue them a refund? On their tax, on their real estate taxes? Do we issue them a refund on their personal property taxes? I don't think we do. Double taxation without double representation. Seems a little bit worrisome to me. We're gonna, the communist way is to take from one to give to another. And that's almost what this seems to me. I encourage you to help the fine folks on Oaks Braddock Crossing, but not ask the folks from Bat Creek to pay twice. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Hearing none, public comments. Citizens' votes are closed. The next item on the agenda is the consent agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Very good. So we'll continue with the vote. On the consent agenda, item 7, supervisor Liero? Mimi Lerner. Libby Mesquite. Layer. Lerner. Lerner. Th coincidental你就 more foggy me. Hey, bakın you splat me. Are we really just walking out on the same floor or on the same institution? I think we should pause to return, is that a Я quarter here? Yes, we're戴 norm. Also, a little bit different in that there's a variance on the wall here. Mr. Chairman, I've got two, but it's okay with you. Absolutely. Supervisor Jewell. I had the privilege today of participating with the DECA program. It was held over at Apple Blossom Mall. Jason Ury from Sharando runs the program. This program is for kids that are learning marketing. It was fascinating. It was, I'm looking at someone I know who's over there as a judge as well. I mean, it gives you hope to see where these kids are and what they're doing. And I just wanted to throw that out there. And this is something that's put on by multiple high schools, multiple counties. We were represented, Frederick County, Warren County, Falkier County, Winchester City. So this program, it's just a fantastic program. And I just think it's something that, it's a gem that a lot of people don't even know about. So, and I just want to thank you. I want to thank Jason Ury. And I want to thank the DECA program. I mean, I think it's wonderful what they're doing with kids. So I want to put that out there. So I wanted, so I started with positive. And then, Mr. Chairman, I made a promise to the citizens when I ran, both Bat Creek and those in the county, that I would bring civility and common sense back to this county. I appreciate the work Mr. Graber put in for the county. While on the board. But I want to make a motion to have Mr. Graber removed from your appointed list for public safety and for public works. We have a motion. Do we have a second? We have a motion and a second. Discussion. Mr. Chairman, we've had enough. We've had enough controversy here in the last few years. And I just think it's the appropriate thing to do for staff and for the county. And again, I just think it's the right thing to do. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. I've known Mr. Graber for a number of years. He has some good policy decisions, etc. At the same time, we need to work together and work with people. We need to focus on policy and not attack people. Mr. Graber was a member, as well as I, with the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission for the last four years. Last month, Mr. Graber made the comment that his salary covered his gas money. Mr. Graber did not attend one Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission meeting. So, Mr. Graber, Mr. Graber, Mr. Graber, Mr. Graber, Mr. Graber, Mr. Graber, Mr. Graber, Mr. Graber, Mr. Graber, Mr. Graber, Mr. Graber, Mr. Graber, Mr. Graber, so therefore the question is should the county just say we need the gas money back? When I attended an extension leadership meeting, people asked was I the new liaison? I said no, I'm just here because of that. I asked why and they said well Mr. Graber hasn't shown up. We need to be truthful when speaking about other people's policy positions. The Chair of this Board needs to go and appoint people to serve the taxpayers not just those that have their own resteуститьoos who do not have their own needs. own interests. I think Mr. Graber has done a good job as a supervisor, but I think that his appointment here would be inappropriate. Thank you. Are there any other comments? May I offer a comment? Supervisor Lockridge? I don't think this is grounds to attack him. He's no longer on the board and I appreciate everything that he has done. He has provided so much insight as far as covering the taxpayer. I think he's looked out for Frederick County more than more than anybody here is recognizing and I mean we need to go ahead and vote on this, but I think we need to cut the discussion of cutting him down. Thank You Supervisor Lockridge. Any other comments before I make mine? Yes sir. I appointed Supervisor Graber to these boards because he's worked very hard for this county. He's always put the taxpayer first. He is the perfect kind of personality, not a wrong personality, the perfect personality to be on, as a citizen representative on a board. He brings a wealth of experience that we're going to miss on this board in public safety. He has had a career in firefighting and has done immense research into that and policing and and and other categories. His work on this board, whatever people individuals might think of him personally. work was excellent and I wanted to leverage that on these on these committees. I think he will if kept on these committees I'm not even sure if this motion is a proper one that'll be the next comment I bring to the question I bring to the attorney but supervisor Graber offers a lot to this county and I think he will easily prove that. Appointments are made for one year and if it and if that wasn't true if I didn't have utmost confidence and where if anything went wrong then that would be changed after a year but but this really surprises me. Personal attacks are not appropriate. Civility is something that we do strive for here on the board. I'm surprised that come that comment in particular comes for supervisor Dunn who's made personal attacks while sitting up here including against my own family. So if that were true there'd be other removals we should be doing. I think that's a really important point that we should be considering if if it was possible. So I don't understand why we're suggesting this with no proof that his contribution to the county would not be excellent on these boards. I'd like to go on and ask the county attorney can can we make a motion as a board if so of course we'll entertain it. Is a motion proper to overturn a committee appointment? Mr. Chairman I believe it is there is a state code provision that says that members of board committees serve at the pleasure of the governing body. So I think the motion that's before the governing body is to determine what the governing body's pleasure is. Thank you sir. So we appoint for a year. I don't have the power to remove appointments so I don't see how he can amend this. I think we have as far as I can tell we need to straight-up vote. Are there any other questions? No. On whether we have confidence in that appointment to two different boards and I'll just repeat that I have that most confidence that it will go very well for us. So any other comments? Mr. Chairman my comments were not a personal attack my comments were the reasons why. Thank you. So we have a motion and a second on the table to remove supervisor Graber from two board appointments. A vote of aye. I'll start at this end. A vote of aye would mean you're voting to remove him from those two boards. Are we ready to vote? Yes sir. Supervisor Liero? Nay. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The chairman votes no. The motion fails. We're still on item eight. Are there any other supervisor comments? I'm going to make another comment Mr. Chairman. If there is any disrespect on these committees in any way I would like this to come back for the board. I'm nothing against Mr. Graber. But we're just on the opposite sides on our feelings about this. And I just think it should be appropriate and it should be just recorded for the record that he's put on notice. So I don't agree with putting him on notice but I appreciate your comment. Any other comments? Mr. Chairman? Yes. I would like to request that staff prepare and present to us a resolution at our next meeting that would reduce the size of our planning commission from 13 to 7 in accordance with the information contained in the planning director's memorandum dated December 27, 2023. Mr. Chairman, please consider that as a motion. Thank you. We have a new motion on the table. Do we have a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Mr. Chairman, if I may? Yes. In this memorandum I think we're in a very unique position. Yes. In that we have a number of terms that will be expiring within probably the first quarter of this year. And in that memorandum, the director has outlined that Frederick County is actually an outlier in the number of members that it has on its planning commission. So with that in mind, that is the reason for my motion. Thank you. Any other discussion of the motion? Do you want my opinion on this or just one from a discussion? Or do we just want to? So discussion and anything that would inform our opinions. But if I can clarify before we go further discussion, do you have a targeted number? My presumption is if we reduced what it would be, but we should probably make that clear. I actually did, and I thought I did in my motion, but let me, and I believe it's 7, so let me just double check. From 13 to 7. From 13 to 7. So presumably one per district plus one at large. Yes, sir. Okay. And then discussion. Supervised. So this is for consideration, correct? We are not going to be voting to reduce at this time. We're just talking about a resolution. It's to study the matter further because we don't have in front of us, for example, how that would be executed, how, which, when it would be done and who would be removed or through attrition how we do it. Okay. I'm, I'm... I'm good with that, but I just want to point out, having just come off the board, the Planning Commission, excuse me, spending four years there, two years as the Chairman. One of the benefits of this county that maybe other counties are missing out is, we have all different walks of life representing that on our county, on that Planning Commission. And I think that the experience that we get from these individuals who are willing to give up their time is, I think, it's a great opportunity to get out there and get a little bit of a bit of a feel of what the city is doing. Thank you. Thank you. And I think that the fact that they're willing to give up their time is really tremendous. So I just think, I'm just putting it out there that we have to be careful about what we're going to do here. So, thank you. Thank you. Supervisor Slaughter? If I may and my recollection is, is that we have numerous committees with citizen members on all of the committees. So I still think we have the opportunity to have the exposure from all walks with, with including our citizen members. So I think that, I think that it wasn't to reduce the interaction, but, but simply to make us more in conformity with what seems to be prevalent. Oh, Mr. Chairman, may I? Yeah. I absolutely agree. But again, I'm going to go back to you, you've got, it's amazing to sit there and listen to individuals come up with something to voting for. Now the committees, committees take it up to the Planning Commission. The Committee of Planning Commission. The Committee of Planning Commission votes for it. It's amazing to sit there and listen to the different perspectives and, and you get, you get something, a nugget, you're going, oh wow, I never even thought about that. So I'm just saying, I think that we need to be careful with this. That's all. Thank you. Other comments on the motion? So I'll just say that issue would have been brought to my attention before. And we do have a board on the larger side. More comparable with some of the other boards. Some of the larger counties. But then again, I served on the Planning Commission for a year and a half. And I agree with Supervisor Jewell that many, if not all of the members of the Commission brought something to the table. So we save money for the county. We get into more conformance with other counties. It's, I'm not averse to studying this at all. But there will be consequences as well. So I just want to add that to the discussion session. Again, any other comments? Did I cut anyone off? Okay, so we have a motion on the table and a second to study. I presume we would task the county administrator to help us study the factors involved with reducing our Planning Commission from 13 members to seven. Mr. Chairman, the motion was to bring back a resolution for the reduction and whatever information that Mr. Pierce had. And that Mr. Pearson would want to share with us in regard to that. Oh, thank you for that correction. So would the resolution merely be a resolution or would you want it to include the mechanisms that we would follow if we did so? If I understood Supervisor McCann's motion correctly, I would work with the county attorney to draft a resolution that would basically step through how exactly to reduce it. Whether that be by attrition or removal of certain seats or staggering terms. Or however is best to achieve it in what is an equitable manner. Thank you. Any other discussion or are we ready for a vote? Who did I start last time? So I'll start with you this time. So the motion on the table is for a resolution to study reducing the size of the Planning Commission. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Kite? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye and the motion passes. So we're still on Board of Supervisors comments. A lot of interesting ones to begin the year but it's an organizational meeting and so a lot of people, a lot of good thinking has gone into the way the county should run. I actually appreciate it. Any other Supervisor comments? Supervisor Lockridge? I do have a comment. I wanted to ask administration if one of the citizens that spoke talked about item 10B and I'm just wanting to know if that was advertised. It's for the Shawnee land vacancy? I would have to verify if it was. That seat has been vacant for two months so applications have been coming in. Okay and is that the only, that's the only one I've seen. Is that the only application that was submitted? The way that one works is a little different. Applications go to the Bat Creek Board member and he determines what comes to the agenda. Gotcha. Thank you for clarification. If I may ask to follow up on your question. So we might not advertise it in the same way since it's such a small district that's really able to apply. It's charter dictates that applications are received at the office at Shawnee land that are then forwarded to the Bat Creek Board member. That one works different from any of the other committees that you have. So do we know if it was advertised in some sense to the broad knowledge of people in Shawnee land? Well it's been advertised as an open seat because it was never filled. So the folks who were there know that there was a vacancy. Well there was a vacancy for several months in the fall and we filled it just as the next vacancy appeared, right? No, this person's term ended in November. So it's been open since November because no one else was there. Okay. So no one else was put forward. So we filled a previous vacancy which was about the same time. You filled the only vacancy that was there but when they held their only meeting of the year that seat was vacant. So they should have known that it was there. So the people who attended the meeting would have known that it was vacant, yes. Okay, thank you. Any other comments? So Supervisor Jewell, is that the only application? That's the only application. Okay, thank you. Okay, thank you. Any other board member comments? No. Okay, thank you. Any other comments? So I'll just make a brief one and welcome Supervisor Jewell and Supervisor Liero to the board. I look forward, I think we have an excellent board and I look forward to a good year. I'll get that comment in now. And we will move on to item nine, county officials. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This item is related to the historic plaque program. To promote historic preservation in the county, the Historic Resource Advisory Board developed the Historic Property Designation Program in 1995, which enables the county to acknowledge and honor the architectural history and integrity of significant structures. We have two historic plaque recipients with us this evening. I hope we've contacted both of them and I hope that they're here to receive their plaques. So, Mr. Chairman, they're over there in the corner of the room. If you want to be ready to provide them to the individuals. Mr. Joe Headley, Jr. and family will accept the plaque on behalf of Long Green, for which the early section of the stone dwelling was believed to have been built in the 1770s, and there have been additions since that time. Two unique features are an underground brick oven and a space to smoke meat in the attic. The Headley family has used the property as an antique auction house, and it continues to be a significant landmark in the county. If the Headleys are here, please come forward to accept the plaque. Thank you. That'd be pretty cool. Yeah, right over there. Thank you all for being here. So, welcome. This is a beautiful historic... I don't know how to remove this, so we'll just make sure it's on and speak in where it is. This is a beautiful historic county. I do appreciate recognizing all the wonderful homes and other elements we have in it. I've sat on the tourism board, and they're also looking for more things to highlight, more signs to put up for tourists that come here so they can enjoy one of the oldest states in the Union and one of the oldest counties we have. So, I admit not knowing much about your property myself. I haven't been out there. Perhaps I've been invited. If I was, that was my fault. But on behalf of the county, I present you the plaque. Would you like to say anything? And we have another, anything? That's right, Mr. Chairman. So, William and Claudia Britz will accept the plaque on behalf of Hackwood, which was built in the late 1770s. It is located on an important Civil War battlefield and was at the center of the Third Battle of Winchester. The detailed sketch by Civil War illustrator James E. Taylor in 1864 shows the building used as a hospital by both Confederate and Union troops. Hackwood is an architecturally significant historic resource in the county. Please come forward to accept the plaque. Thank you all for being here. So, from me, same comments as before. I love the historic parts of this county and I look forward to finding out more. Please send me an invitation. I don't want to impose. Here is the plaque from the county for your site. And here's an envelope. I forgot. I'll also bring one down. If you'll take it to them. Thank you very much. Thank you. That completes 9A, 9B. Presentation on the proposed amendments to the drought ordinance. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I'm going to do is I'm going to give you an overview on the drought conditions. Because last month we had some questions. And as we get into the ordinance, Mr. Pearson will join us up here. Because he's drafted the ordinance. A quick update. Groundwater recharge in this community, and everybody has experienced it the past six months. The past, recently, yesterday was awesome with the rain. But the groundwater recharge in the region has experienced a significant deficit over the past, since the past year really. Last spring is when it became noticeable. Without this natural recharge, groundwater, it's not going to be there. Without this natural recharge, groundwater levels are dropping. And that significantly impacts Frederick Water's water operations. We use groundwater for our customers. We don't go to the Shenandoah River. We don't use surface water. So groundwater is extremely valuable and important for us to maintain and manage. Groundwater itself is an outstanding water resource. Not only for our customers, but anybody in the county that's on a well. They realize it's pure, it's clear, it's clean, it's tasty. And that's important. Surface water has the impurities coming from the upstream wastewater treatment plants. So we benefit by not using streams. We benefit by using groundwater. Just as I talk about the drought in groundwater conditions, it affects Frederick Waters operations, but it affects a majority of our county properties that are actually on private wells. We're all pulling from the same system. We track rain at our deal water plant. This is the water plant in Stephen City. We had some rain in December. We had some in November. And prior to that, it was pretty dry. We look at everything from a yearly perspective. And the monthly average is typically over 3 1⁄2 inches of rain. We've only seen just over 2 inches of rain per month this past year. So you've got a significant deficit. The simple math is you've got over 12 inches of rain deficit in our local system. And that significantly affects groundwater. One of the best things to recharge our groundwater is not only rain throughout the year, but it's the most important thing is the snow. Rain that we got yesterday, and I'll show you a graph in a minute, it was amazing. It created flooding. But one of the problems is it doesn't sink into the ground because it quickly washes off the surface, goes into the creeks, goes into the rivers, and flows away from here. It pushes all the impurity. It cleans off the ground and pushes it away, but it doesn't stay here for us. The snow melt is what we enjoy as a groundwater. We want to see the groundwater recharge. So from our operation, and really from a property owner and private well operation, you want to see snow. You want the snow to sit there, slowly soak into the ground, and we capture that in our community. It doesn't wash away like rain does. So some people don't like snow. I'm a snow fan. The more snow we have, the more groundwater charge we get, and both our operations as well as the private wells benefit from a nice snowy winter. We monitor. We monitor a bunch of wells to understand the groundwater in our area. This is one that U.S. Geological Survey uses, the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality uses. It's actually located in Clark County, so it's the regional one. But it has a lot of outstanding data, so I wanted to share some of that with you. That well has got 36 years worth of data. I've got a 10-year snapshot so you can get a sense as to the trend of the groundwater levels. All the way to the left is in 2014. All the way to the right is this past year. And you can see starting in spring, it's about, I keep saying it's March is really when we start noticing it, it starts to drop. And that's representative of the groundwater in our community too. We have over 20 wells that we monitor, and they have the same trends. Everything has dropped over the past year. So let's look, I've got a 10-year snapshot here, but what I'm going to do on my next slide, I'm only going to look at the last 12 months. So that's the area that I've got circled there. When you look at the last 12 months, it's continued to drop. The groundwater level continues to drop. We look at VDA, our Virginia Department of Environmental Quality, DEQ, we look to their triggers to help us make decisions. And at the beginning of September, it started triggering drought concerns at DEQ. First, beginning of September, they had a drought warning, then it moved up to the drought emergency. Now, what is a drought emergency? It's when, I'm going to read the bottom part because that's more easier to understand. 95% of the water data collected for the month of December over the past 36 years, it triggers an emergency when your current water is less than 5% of what you've seen over the last, in this case, 36 years. So that's a significant, we're in a drought. That's what the data is showing us. And the chart does too. Now, I'll take it one step further because we did have that nice rain yesterday. Even when you have rain, we don't see an immediate benefit in the groundwater. I've got to zoom in. No, I don't. So if you go down to the bottom circle, that's this past month. And you can see yesterday's rain, hey, that was a nice benefit. The chart's showing it's going up. But the trend has been every time it rains, we get a little blip, and the next day or so, we drop down again. Now, a positive is the past month, the rain we have gotten has slowed the decrease in the amount of rain that we've seen over the last three months. And that's a significant benefit. But it's a decline. So I don't see it's leveling out yet, but it's slowing down. But we haven't recovered. So even though we're getting rain, it's helping us, but it hasn't recovered. The chart, or the dot in the middle of the screen, which it says August 23rd straight up, that is the trigger point that DEQ uses that says we are now in a drought. So you can see how much higher we need to go on this well to make some sense of it. Now, visually, I've got a couple pictures I just wanted to share with you. This is the North Quarry. This is the main water source for the Stephen City water treatment plant, the Deal water treatment plant. Because the water level has dropped so much, we had to go in mid-December and do some improvements to the systems. You have three pumps floating on the barges. Each pump has its own raw water line. It has its own electrical system. And the water level has dropped to a point we've never seen it before that it was stretching the raw water lines, the electrical conduits. So we brought in a crane to fix some of the gaskets, get rid of some leaks, and we're also going out and assembling more materials so we can add another section of pipe to each one of those so the barge isn't being strained. So the water is very low. Now, to give you perspective, 2019 was a very wet year for this community, and data reflects that. In 2019, where those cranes are currently sitting, they would have been under about two, three feet of water. So there was a lot of water back there. Back then, we were in the deficit this year. Jumping over, now this is Pit 2. This is the Anderson quarry system. So this is the north part of the county. We have our Anderson water treatment plant. It pulls from Pit 2. As you can see, Pit 2 doesn't have a lot of water in it. In fact, it's a 90-foot difference since the rainy season of 2019. And the next picture, and these two pipes, those are our shafts that we use to withdraw water. And the next picture, and these two pipes, those are our shafts that we use to withdraw water. And the next picture, and these two pipes, those are our shafts that we use to withdraw water. In this picture, they have seven and a half feet of coverage. And then we don't have water. And then we don't have water. So the groundwater has definitely dropped in our quarries, in our wells. So the groundwater has definitely dropped in our quarries, in our wells. So we just wanted to demonstrate, or show that to you. And these pictures really help you understand what's going on. And these pictures really help you understand what's going on. Now, in terms of what we do at Frederick Water, we operate the water system. Now, in terms of what we do at Frederick Water, we operate the water system. We monitor the groundwater. We look at DEQ's information. But we are driven by the county code. The Frederick County Code, Chapter 75. Which is your code. Essentially tells us how to do things. In terms of the drought aspect. So when we start seeing triggers on our groundwater, So when we start seeing triggers on our groundwater, we communicate with county administration. We talk through what we're seeing, what the groundwater levels are. We talk about the DEQ advisories, the monitored wells, R20 wells, and then some of the visuals from the quarries we pull from. And through that discussion, we say, we make a decision. Okay, well, we're in drought warning, we're in drought watch, whatever the trigger is. We declare that, and then at your next meeting, it's presented to you for ratification, essentially. It's presented to you for ratification, essentially. That's your county code. Last month, I know there were some discussions and concerns, Last month, I know there were some discussions and concerns, and that's one reason I wanted to share the data with you. But at the end of the day, it's your county code. So if you don't like what you have in the code, So if you don't like what you have in the code, we encourage you to make corrections. Because we have to make decisions based on your code. So I just wanted to point that out. At the end of the day, I'm going to do my best to manage my water supply. I'm going to do my best to manage my water supply. And one aspect of managing the water supply to make sure my customers have water is to understand what my parameters are. is to understand what my parameters are. And if the trigger says I'm in an emergency, under today's county code, it says certain things happen. There's no more irrigation, there's no more water haulers, you're not doing the residential connections. That's the county code. So I'm not making a decision. But I look in the county code and that helps me understand how I'm going to cut back on some water use to help meet my customer demands. So I just share that because as you go forward and Wyatt's here to help talk about the county code and the draft potential changes, we're looking to you at the end of the day to tell us what rules you want and then we can program that into our daily decisions to make sure we're doing what we can to make sure that not only are we preserving the groundwater, but we're having adequate water to satisfy our customers and more importantly, to satisfy our fire demand. If we get to the point where we barely have enough water to satisfy the customers on a daily basis and then somewhere in the community breaks out in a big fire, it's going to absorb and suck up a lot of the water. So we always have to make sure we're planning for the worst case scenario and managing our resources the best we can. I think that's what I have. And one thing I want to point out is structurally, we have an adopted budget, we have rate structures for our customers and that's all based on where we get our water. That's our groundwater system, that's our pump structures, that's our water treatment plants. After the emergency was delayed or vacated last month, we started seeing an increase in water usage. We started seeing an increase in new connections being paid for residential that had previously been delayed. We started seeing water consumption going up. So we did a smart thing and we have an agreement with the City of Winchester. So we went to our board and said I need some more money, I'm going to start buying water from Winchester to make sure we are good. Make sure our customers have water, make sure we're ready for fire suppression. But there's two aspects to that. It wasn't part of our budget, so that says we'll defer some other expenditures to make sure that we can pay with the Winchester bill essentially. But we also end up losing money on it because what we have to pay Winchester for water is less than what we charge our customers for water. So we try not to do that. It's not part of our budget program. But it's nice having that opportunity if we need water and we can go purchase it. One of the driving factors that creates a benefit this round is by purchasing the City's water we are relaxing our withdrawal from our current groundwater sources so we can hopefully help the quarries recharge. And our operation is we use the winter months to recharge the groundwater. We use that snow benefit because come summertime water demands increase. We almost see a 2 million gallon a day swing. So by purchasing Winchester water today, it's costing more, but we're hoping we're going to reap the benefits, in which case the quarries will recharge so when we start seeing the demands increase in May, we're in better shape this time around. So there's a benefit to buying from Winchester. But that said, again, we're hoping for a lot of snow and the rain this past week was great. Let's turn it into snow, maybe 2 or 3 feet worth, and we'll recharge the ground. That's my side of the presentation. If you have any questions about the groundwater or our operations, I can certainly address that. I know that Wyatt had put together a draft ordinance and that's in your package, so if you've got questions about that, I'm going to ask Wyatt to come up and participate in the discussion. Thank you for your presentation and I share your excitement about 2 or 3 feet of snow. I'm on the right side of this issue, I guess. Any of the Board have questions for Mr. Lawrence? Supervisor Slaughter? Actually, I have a couple questions. Mr. Lawrence, first of all, I'd like to thank you for being here this evening and for your presentation. How confident are you in Frederick Waters' ability to weather, let's say we have an issue of a severe drought. Right now, we've been in a moderate, but we look at other states like Texas and California that it's been years of overdue precipitation. So, how does Frederick County fit into all of that? The ultimate fallback is we can purchase water from the City of Winchester. It comes with a cost, so that's our we have a contractual opportunity, but we prefer not to do that. So that's an opportunity to us. The new water plant that is not completed yet, but that has another quarry reservoir with it, and that helps us prepare. That new plant, it has some, the best way to look at it is during COVID, they weren't building cars, and when you finally went to buy the car, they didn't have all the parts for the car, so you buy a car and they tell you, come back in six months and we'll add the radio or whatever the case was. I think the water plant, the water plant construction was something similar to that. The contract went out in the middle of COVID, so we had a delayed start getting going. But the reason I'll point that out is that plant had, as a reservoir, that when they're both operating, that'll give us another billion gallons of water. It's not operational today, we're hustling trying to get there. I don't think it's going to be, I know it won't be ready to help today's drought. It'll help us six months, ten months, twelve months from now, but it's not going to help us today. But that new plant, that new quarry, and maintaining our relationship with the City of Winchester gives us a lot more opportunities. And lastly, particularly in the Stonewall District in the northern end, we've had a rash of people's wells going dry, and I guess I have a concern about the level of groundwater available and the recharge rate as it correlates to whatever withdrawals that you're making from the groundwater. So could you speak to that? Yeah, and one of the things that our operators do is, when we started pulling from quarries almost 30 years ago, that's when Frederick Waters said, let's use a quarry as our water source, we did a number of studies to understand what the recharge rate was. So not only do we have studies that understand the recharge rate in a particular quarry, whenever we find a production well, we do the same studies. We want to make sure we understand what it can produce. We also monitor the levels. So one of the challenges is, and that's why I like the DEQ Clark County well, when the regional water is dropping, and ours are consistent, then it's a clear indication it's not something I'm doing, it's just a regional source. So we try to manage that to make sure that we're not doing anything outside of the regional perspective. So we have the study that says, if the study says we can produce, or the quarry's going to recharge at 2 million gallons a day, we don't take more than that. And then during a drought, we monitor and we try to spread things out. One of the things that we've developed over the past five, six years is additional production wells, so we can spread things out. It certainly gives us more water to produce, but it also, the theory was, it spreads things out, so we're not taking it all from the same location. We're diversified. It's good from a reliability perspective, but it also makes sure that we're not taking it from one spot, because that will definitely impact adjacent property owners or whatever the case is. It's an interesting dilemma, well not dilemma, but an interesting situation with our new quarry, the east pit is what we call it. We're not taking any water out of it. It's been recharging. And while the groundwater has dropped in the community, that quarry continues to hold its own. So you have different dynamics as to, you know, the groundwater's not all connected. You have different qualities of different wells in different areas. So we use our hydrogeologist to give us the best guidance and tell us how to manage where we should be going. So the intent is to diversify, make sure we have adequate water supply to meet our customers' demands, but also not impact the private wells within our community. Just looking at the Clark County well, it's far enough away that whatever we do is not going to impact that. But if it has a decline in a similar fashion that all the wells that we monitor in Frederick County, it's a good indication it's more of a regional issue that we're running into, and it's not directly related to one of our operations. And are you updating studies periodically to make sure that we're not having an impact? Yeah, we talk, we use a hydrogeologist and he's constantly evaluating stuff with us to make sure things are, we're not doing anything wrong, essentially. Part of our process, when we establish a quarry, when we establish a production well, we have to do a study to demonstrate that it doesn't impact, and we have to submit that to the state. So we can't just build a well and start using it. We have to communicate with our state co-parts, both the Department of Health as well as Department of Environmental Quality, to make sure that everybody knows what we're doing and everybody reviews the information. And how often are those studies updated? Really, it's depending on when we're doing stuff. If we're changing the operation at a particular quarry or changing the operation at a plant, or a well, we go back to the hydrogeologist and say, can you confirm what we're doing here? He was on a call with us yesterday looking at data, and he still feels that everything's consistent with what he's found in the past when we were looking at certain wells, because he says the groundwater, it's still flowing, it just has dropped a little bit lower. One thing that we like to do, we have sensors on some of our production wells, so we can turn the pump on and we see the water level change, and we turn the pump off and we see a change. And what we do is we have a safety margin. So that says there's a recognition based on his studies that when you pull so much water, it's going to drop two feet, and if you stop, then it's going to recharge itself instantly. And that's how we can test to make sure we understand what our impact is on the areas. And quite honestly, just like you saw a picture of a pump that was being seven and a half feet above the water, all of our pumps, I mean, these are expensive investments, they all have sensors on them, so they tell us when the water's ten feet above, you know, they tell us when there's a safety issue going on. For the most part, our production wells, and this, people don't talk about it, a lot of times you hear wells are a thousand feet deep or six hundred feet deep. Most of our production wells, the pumps are not that deep. The hydrogeologist, and it amazes me, we have two wells that if I turn the pumps off, within a couple days, the water's coming out of the ground. So it's just, the hydrogeologist knows where to find the successful wells, and when we put our infrastructure in, the pump may be a hundred feet, a hundred fifty feet down, but we want, well, we set all the computer sensors so we have at least fifty feet of cover on top of the pump. So we have a good sense as to what's happening. We like the deep, not necessarily deep wells, but we like the deep water, because it's cleaner. So, we play with that, depending on where the water level is, and quite honestly, if the water, if the well doesn't produce enough, then we don't waste our time with it. What you need of your house is nothing, because I get a well and I'm serving four thousand houses type thing. It's a different quality and different production. I don't know if I gave you more information or helped answer some of your questions. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Lawrence? Mr. Lawrence. In December, this board voted not to declare a water emergency. Based upon your data, do you think that currently we are in a water emergency? That's number one. Number two, can you tell me what happened between December, when we declared not, and how much water usage has occurred in the intervening four weeks? Well, based on the data I showed you, we believe we're in a water emergency, and that's that guides how we're operating. Your county code is a different animal. We have to operate based on where our water limitations are. We, with the holidays, one of the challenges is, you have certain holidays, you either, you get a lot, you know, everybody comes to town, so you have more water use, but then some of the plants shut down. So there's been a lot of variables since you last met. So, we know that people came in and were buying new residential permits. So we know that the declaration triggered something, because the day after we got ten new permits submitted. But I can't, I can't assimilate whether that turned into a lot more water use or not. It's just more of a reality of what happened. Can you speak to those people that use bulk water? Can you speak to those people that use bulk water? We had people call us and ask us, hey, there's no emergency, can we go back into operation? And the answer is yes. There's no declared emergency, so you can go back in. The way our bulk water system works is, at the end of the month, if they've used water, they have to submit their consumption reports to us. So, I don't have a report, whether we've gotten any reports. But use bulk haulers, because during the drought leading up to that, we were declared, the bulk haulers and the fire hydrants were off limits. So, nobody reported water use because they weren't supposed to be using water. So, if we had people that are using bulk water that's chlorinated, they could use non-chlorinated water to still meet their same goals, which would then provide more water accessibility for the people that you serve. Is that accurate? Yeah, certainly. I mean, we have to treat and chlorinate water, and if you're just going to use it to water plants or fill a hole in the ground, you ought to just put it in the water. If you're using straight water out of a quarry, out of a river, whatever the case. Thank you. Any more questions? Thank you, Mr. Lawrence. Wyatt, do you want to present on the ordinance? Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. I don't have a PowerPoint presentation for you. I'm happy to answer any questions that you have on the draft ordinance. As directed by this Board, over the holidays, I read and reached out to some of the prominent stakeholders. We used conversations that we previously had with bulk water haulers to serve in that capacity for those individuals, and then spoke with members of the agricultural community, namely through the Farm Bureau and the development community as well with the home builders. So, I'm certain that I did not make all of the stakeholders happy with my draft recommendations for amendments to the ordinance. However, I tried to balance their concerns as it relates to the information that Mr. Lawrence had provided me about the reality of the drought emergency. So, I'll quickly go over those items. It's our recommendation to allow for bulk water hauling during the drought warning stage. That was previously brought up as a concern from the bulk water haulers because there's actually no appeal provisions during the drought warning stage. So, they can't haul water at all in the drought warning, and they have to wait until it gets so bad that it's a drought emergency that they can appeal. So, our recommendation is just to remove that provision and that limitation. I sit on the planning committee for Frederick Water, and a recommendation coming out of a recent conversation with that body was to restrict operation of commercial car washes without water recycling systems during the drought emergency stage. There was relevant usage data where it seemed that either one or two of the commercial car washes operating in Frederick County was clearly using a substantial amount more than the amount that was required to get the water out of the water. So, I'm not sure that that's more than the rest. And there was no anecdotal evidence to support that they were doing just so much business that represented why. So, it was assumed that they may not have a water recycling system installed. We would recommend doing that with an effective date and notifying those operations that they have three years to install a water recycler, and then if three years passes and we enter a drought emergency, they'll need to close. During the drought emergency stage, it's our recommendation that we allow bulk water hauling for temporary potable residential purposes. And that came out of, I think, a comment made by then Supervisor Graeber related to the situation that a rural landowner could be put in in the drought emergency stage as they wait after their well has gone dry for a well driller to arrive and there's no opportunity for anybody to haul water to their property to keep their house functional while they wait to drill a deeper well. And then lastly, and I think probably the element of most concern, the new service connections provision acted as a functional trigger as soon as a drought emergency was declared previously. Our recommendation is to modify that and allow the Board to elect to establish a moratorium on new service connections. So County Administrator in concert with Mr. Lawrence could declare a drought emergency and upon ratification of the drought emergency, the Board could elect to utilize that provision to say no more residential connections as well. Reasoning behind that is if you think about new service connections with the home building community, the actual impact on usage isn't going to come until the house is occupied and using water. Furthermore, knowing that that's nine months down the road and it is a relatively small amount of usage for a single residential home, the savings don't really justify the potential impact that it would create by basically stopping development in the county. So I think it's still a good provision to have. As you saw from Eric, it's a dire situation and I think the Board should retain the ability to essentially choose whether the existing residents continue to receive the remaining water or you continue to allow new residents to share in that limited pool of resources. If the Board is inclined to make any of these amendments to Chapter 75, a public hearing could be held at your January 24th Board meeting and Mr. Chairman, I'm happy to answer your questions. I'm happy to answer any of the questions on the ordinance. Thank you. Any questions? Thank you, Wyatt. So we have proposed amendments to the drought ordinance. Are you asking that we take this up and give direction? What would be the next step? The Board could authorize a public hearing on January 24th if they think that these amendments are favorable and they want to consider them at that meeting. I think our direction was really just to solicit feedback from stakeholders and provide recommendations so we serve at the pleasure of the Board for what you all think may be appropriate. So this is independent of whether a drought emergency is declared? That's correct. I think in conversations with county administration nothing would prevent the declaration of a drought emergency and that could come in concert with the amendments to the ordinance and on January 24th the Board could then in turn ratify the drought emergency. The new ordinance goes into effect. If you adopt it after a public hearing at that meeting. Mr. County Attorney, did I articulate that correctly? I think so. I don't know that we have a declared drought emergency at the moment, but that could happen obviously. And my last question, sorry there may be others with questions, but was Mr. Lawrence in favor of all these amendments? I treated Mr. Lawrence similar to the other stakeholders, so I provided it to him for feedback and he didn't tell me I was crazy. Is that correct, Eric? Thank you, Eric. Again, any other questions? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we move ahead with a public hearing as presented by the Planning Commission on our water shortage. On all the amendments proposed? Yes, sir. Thank you. Is there a second? I'll second that. We have a motion and a second. Any other discussion? So Mr. Chairman, I think I'm going to make, I sent all of you a memo asking this to be put on the board. In December, we all voted not to declare a water emergency. Based upon the data here, I'm going to make an amendment to your motion to declare a water emergency. One of the issues that we were dealing with in December was that various stakeholders were going to be affected differently. We weren't going to meet for another month. If we declare a water emergency today, you have two weeks before we come back to go and address the issue. I also sent Mr. Lawrence, Mr. Oates, and Mr. Ballhofer a memo that said reach out to all affected parties and see what comes in. This was done during the holidays. They may or may not have had an opportunity to do that. So from my perspective, based upon the data, I think we should declare a water emergency today. It eliminates the bulk water haulers from using chlorinated water. It provides some guidance there. Anybody else? Anybody that's affected can come back in two weeks and say, here's how it's affecting me. How do you modify it? You already have the opportunity to have an ordinance. So from my perspective, I would just see us have an emergency declared today, and then we can address the issues and what needs to be done in two weeks. That, Mr. Chairman, is my amendment. So we have an amendment on the table. It could be a separate consideration though as well, right? Declaring an emergency doesn't have to... I know you've proposed it. Is there any reason it has to be attached to this? No, it could be... It doesn't have to be attached to this. We can have it... After this is done, we can go and have a second amendment. I just attached this because it's dealing with the issue. If the amendment is successful, fine. If the amendment is not, that's fine. And to the pleasure of the Board on whether you want to have this as an amendment, or do you want to have it as a separate issue? I can go either way. Okay. So that doesn't mean we can't consider a drought emergency, but there is an amendment proposed to add that to this motion. Is there a second? I will second that. Based on what I just saw, I think we are... Our water is an issue. Thank you. So we have an amendment and a second on that amendment on the table. Any discussion? And we would coordinate the public hearing hand in hand. They both... We would still need to have the public hearing regarding the drought emergency, correct? I think the county attorney and I in reading the ordinance, there isn't a public hearing requirement to declare the drought emergency. Typically, the county administrator declares the drought emergency and then the Board has to ratify his declaration within 14 days or their next regular business meeting. So, Rod, am I correct in assuming that... Go ahead. I think so. Certainly as far as the 14 days. We'll make sure that there's not some subsequent requirement, say like 60 days out or whatever, but in the immediacy what the motion that's before the Board would be acceptable. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Yes. Mr. Williams. If this is a separate issue, and I have to talk to my second here in a second, if this is a separate issue as opposed to an amendment to this, does that make this cleaner? Because if it does, I'm going to withdraw my motion. If the second withdraws her motion, and I see the administrator shaking his head, yes. So therefore, let me make the suggestion, unless you have a comment, that if it makes it cleaner, I'm probably going to withdraw my motion. If the second withdraws her, we can take care of the ordinance, and then I'm going to come back subsequent with a resolution. Okay. In that case, Mr. Chairman, I withdraw my motion if the second will as well. I withdraw my second. Thank you. So we're back to the original motion to have a public hearing on the ordinance revisions as proposed. Any other discussion? Very good. So we will vote on that. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Slater. Aye. Supervisor Welch. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion passes. And then you wanted to make another motion. So, Mr. Chairman, I'll make a motion that Frederick County is now in a state of emergency, in a state of a water emergency. Second. We have a motion and a second. I have a question. So, I thought you said that another entity makes the drought emergency declaration and we ratify it. Is it appropriate for us to declare the drought emergency? I think so. I mean, if you can ratify it, presumably you can declare it as long as you feel you have sufficient factual basis, and I think I'm reading between the lines of Supervisor Dunn's motion is I heard what Mr. Lawrence had to say, and I reached that conclusion. I just wanted to make sure, sir, that we were within our rights to do that. And do you, to clarify, you want to declare that effective immediately? I declare that effective immediately based upon the information we got from Frederick Water today. And the second agrees to declare it immediately? Yes. Okay, any discussion? So, on the vote to declare a water emergency and restrict usage, we'll have a vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. And that's a tough one for me too, Supervisor Wells, but we already have a majority all vote aye, and the motion passes. So then we move on to item 9C. Mr. Chairman, we have Wyatt coming up to do a presentation. I had brought this back for our agenda because in December we had voted to take the money we had pulled from the bond, that $70,000, and just do the safety concerns. After discussion with Mr. Pearson again, it is very clear that that $70,000 would be wasting the money, and I think we need to come up with a better solution before that's spent. And just to reiterate what the citizens of Isles Lane had said, just this month, we're going to be looking at the $70,000 and that $70,000 that we have to take. And I think that we need to come up with a solution to the VDOT system. So Mr. Pearson is going to present. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the introduction, and I'm going to take a moment to introduce Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to introduce Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to introduce Mr. Pearson. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'm just going to introduce Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, this is Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman and you would probably be aware that we to the developer that's not included or not obligated by the bond that was pulled. There was initially a $457,000 bond, and a reduction was applied for in 2016 to reduce that bond. In the initial reduction request, it was to reduce it to around $50,000, and Public Works issued a memorandum to amend that to increase that amount to the bond amount that you're familiar with, the roughly $71,800. So, we have some limitations that have created issues in the way that we manage the bond program in the past. So, I'll go over those quickly, but know that I'm going into how we've attempted to surmount those obstacles moving forward. These are snippets from the state code section that speak to those issues. So, we are not allowed to accept bonds that exceed the total estimated cost of construction with an additional 10%. The first item is as it relates to unit prices. So, we are not allowed to accept bonds and tell developers that we think asphalt costs an exceptional amount more than it actually does cost in the private and public market. So, that's the first section. Additionally, we are allowed to have a reasonable allowance for administrative costs, inflation, and potential damage to existing roads or utilities, but that cannot exceed 10%, which in my opinion is a very good thing. So, that's the first section. The second section is that we are not allowed to accept bonds that exceed the total estimated cost of construction. So, that's the first section. The third section is that we are not allowed to accept bonds that exceed the total estimated cost of construction. So, that's the first section. So, from an inflation perspective, it's certainly not a reasonable allowance, and that has been a bit of an issue over the years. So, we also have to provide for periodic and partial reductions or release of bonds as the developers complete portions of the infrastructure. So, the way that looks now is they'll finish half the road. They will prepare a new cost estimate and provide us as-built plans stamped by a professional engineer showing what they've done and what's left. So, that's the first section. And then we'll consider that as a reasonable allowance. So, that's the first section. So, that's the first section. So, that's the first section. and then we'll consider the reduction. So in July of 2022, at the direction of the finance committee and eventually this board, we did some modifications to the bond program to try to creatively think of solutions to avoid those state code sections that I just detailed. I just referenced one, which is to require as-built plans that show exactly how much of the road has been constructed, and then that correlates directly to an engineer's cost estimate, saying that the remaining 30% is gonna cost this much. We now establish the unit rates ourselves for cost estimates. Previously, a PE could submit their own unit rates based on what they believe the market cost to be at that time for that type of work to be done. Kind of the thinking we had coming up with that is it doesn't matter what they can build it for. If the bond is gonna be pulled, it matters what Frederick County can build it for. So we established that we would have to pay for our own unit rates, and Public Works maintains those for what we expect we would have to pay to finish the project. We now require a performance agreement, which is functionally like a contract with a five-year deadline. And that says if you don't complete your project in five years, you're in default to your contract, we're gonna require them to then post a new bond if they wanna come out of default and continue their project. We don't think that that violates state code, and we think it's a means of accounting for inflation within a reasonable timeframe. And allowing the development community a reasonable time to complete the project without them having to halt and prepare new materials. And then lastly, the active monitoring of some of our existing bonds. So all of these modifications only apply to bonds moving forward. Everything that we've accepted up until July of 2022 is subject to the circumstances that they were approved for at that given time. So to try to resolve that, this item brought for you was actually results of a project that was in default of what I would refer to as active monitoring of existing bonds, which is a collaborative team of my department, the treasurer's office, public works, and the county attorney, and representatives from county administration evaluating bonds that we think may pose liabilities and deciding how best to address the issue. This bond issue with the Oaks at Brighton Crossing and Isles Lane seemed, we didn't have a better resolution for it. In short, at the committee meeting when we discussed it, I think it was said, we can either handle this right now, or we can come back in 10 years and it's gonna cost even more to solve this issue. So we brought it before the finance committee and eventually to the board with that in mind. To give you some context about previously pulled bonds, and these are all relatively recent, except for the first bullet point, there was about two to three projects that as a result of the great recession and bankruptcies from developers, we had to pull the bonds. We didn't need any, if we need very little, if any appropriations to cover the shortfalls for those. I think that was a product of the circumstances of that time. There was a pretty, construction became a lot more affordable because people needed jobs to be done immediately following the housing market crash. In winter of 2021, this board considered Marion Drive, and you may remember at the time, Vice Chairman Doug McCarthy was an advocate for that project. A similar circumstance to the one you're considering tonight, a bit of a smaller stretch of road, but nonetheless, the base was in very poor shape and almost had to be entirely reconstructed before paving the top coat. Yardmaster Court was actually a commercial project where the initial developer went bankrupt and the bank owned the obligation. So we pulled the bond, completed the project, and the board funded the shortfall between the bond amount and the project cost. So just to summarize the Isles Lane situation as it stands, I think Supervisor Lockridge touched on this already, but the board did authorize us to utilize the existing bond funds for safety improvements only on Isles Lane. At that time, you all had asked me kind of what that might include from the VDOT punch list. And we don't have an itemized value for the individual safety improvements, but I can tell you, short of the sightline issue and lowering the hill to be able to see better coming out of there, there really aren't any safety improvements. So I would expect, and in conversations with the public, with the public works director, we would certainly not utilize all the bond funds and have to then in turn return it back to the bank and or the developer, depending upon how that legal process works. So some future potential considerations, if you all stay the course, as it was directed at the last board meeting, it would be advisable to abandon the right of way that was dedicated to Frederick County when the subdivision plot was initially recorded. I think the residents mentioned that we, we procured the services of a contractor to plow snow out there. And I feel that while we have bond money, that legal obligation still exists. And that is going to continue to be our responsibility. If you don't get into the state system, the, as I mentioned, the unused bond funds would need to be returned. They were for that specific purpose, which is the maintenance of that road. We could continue to use them for snow plowing, but if they don't go towards those safety improvements that were mentioned, we can't use them for anything else. And then absent abandonment of the right of way, I think there's a board policy consideration that needs to be taken up, which is this is a Frederick County right of way. And if the bond money runs out eventually from plowing, what would be the board's pleasure as it relates to continued obligations at Isles Lane? And Mr. Chairman, that's all I have. I'm happy to answer any questions on this issue. Questions by the board? So Mr. Pearson, we've had some conversations prior to this meeting. And in those conversations, I believe we have a number. So first of all, going forward, I appreciate what you're doing to this from occurring in the future. That's number one. Number two, most people here, we're not on the board. We're not aware of the $471,000 to $70,000 differential. So that's been unfortunate. But we have an obligation to do certain things. And we're not aware of the $471,000 to $70,000 differential. So that's been unfortunate. But we have an obligation to do certain things. for the county. In conversations that I've had with you, I understand that there potentially are other bonds that can come up from smaller developers that will be similar to this. We've already had a couple in the last couple years, et cetera. So I'm not gonna put you on the spot, but I'm saying, is that true, number one? Approximately, if you wanna quantify it as much, how much of that is? And the reason I'm asking you the question, Mr. Pearson, is for you board members. I've been wrestling with this and my thought process is, instead of dealing with this as one point issue, maybe we need as a board to figure out what happens when other bonds come due, if they come due, how do we deal with that? We've already had two decisions previously on addressing this. So let's figure out what our policy is and go forward with that as opposed to a piecemeal. So having said that, Mr. Pearson, comments? Yeah, there are certainly additional liabilities in the bond program that may result in considerations similar to what you all are discussing tonight. In our collaborative evaluation of all the ones that predate the bond program modifications, this was probably the only one where we didn't see an outcome that wasn't pulling the bond and funding the shortfall. I think the other circumstances as they relate have potential outcomes that aren't that because there's either economic value to continue to be derived by the developer, that is there's houses to continue to be built out there, or the developer themselves, is substantially more solvent and committed to completion of that project and other projects within the county. My comment and concern is that in year one, you have a plat and they lay out what we saw here, 20 homes, et cetera. Then we have a recession like occurred in 2007 to 2009, then nothing occurs for another 10 years, it's all the data, the economic data, from year one is now being applied in year 10, 12, 15, 20. In Redbud, for example, we have areas that were platted in the year 2000, 23 years ago, they're now being built. So the escalation costs on construction of roads is significant, much more than the CPI. In this example here, I believe the initial cost was someplace in the neighborhood, you knew the numbers better than I do, was a few thousand dollars, which I think was $70,000, which went up to 330,000, something like that, it was huge. So if you take that, join these others, my concern to you all as board members is, how do we address this issue? And before we just address this issue, I'm still gonna say, maybe we have a set this aside, have a policy to figure out how to do that. Yeah, all I can, I'm not gonna stand up here and say that there's not an opportunity for one of those many older bonds to evolve into an issue. But I can say with a limited amount of confidence that they don't pose an issue right now, that doesn't have a more preferred resolution. So for example, using Isles Lane, other similar rural subdivisions exist right now that meet the public need requirement, which is VDOT defines that as three houses on that stretch of road. That's the only time VDOT will agree to accept it in the state system for maintenance. They won't just take a road, and no matter what condition it is, no matter what standard it meets that, there's only one house there, and that's it. That's all. So in our evaluation of it, that's probably the first checkbox we hit, which is, does it meet the public need requirement? If it does, and there's a bond, we contact the developer and say, you have met the public need requirement. You need to be actively progressing towards getting it into the state system for the section that meets the public need. Otherwise, we may pull your bond and do it for you. So it's that kind of proactive approach that we're attempting to prevent issues like this from, evolving in that way. But properties change hands all the time. Even in evaluation in the current calendar year of a property and the unique circumstances regarding that development could change in the next calendar year as well. So we're gonna keep at it, but that's all the assurance that I can provide at this time. Okay, thank you. I just had a comment. And I know you and I have spoken a lot. If we were to move forward with this and go ahead and get this one off, because of the bond process going forward, is there any way to keep that developer from doing this exact same thing? And you're saying that there are no more lots on aisles, but he is still able, and from a legality standpoint, I mean, he can always change his name and go under business under some other, but that's my biggest concern is that if we don't hold him accountable, because I agree with the comments that why are all the tax payers not able to move forward with this? I mean, I think that's a big concern. I think that's a big concern. I think that's a big concern. I think that's a big concern. Although I understand the bond process that the people on that lane think that that's the county's obligation. So before I have you answer that, this memorandum from the letter of credit, number 327, when we dropped it from $457,000, which would have clearly covered the 330 that VDOT is saying, that was just in 2021. So why was it dropped so, it wasn't? No, after a citizen brought that up, I looked back through the bond file and that is a mistake in the memorandum. Okay. The reduction occurred in 2016 from 457,000. To the 71. To that 71,000. Okay, because that was very alarming. Yeah, and I think it's the way that it's phrased in here that I could totally understand somebody viewing it that way. There was a new letter of credit issued in the same amount as the one that was previously reduced to replace the 2016 letter of credit. And it's complicated if you don't deal with the bonds a lot, but almost annually they get replaced by a new letter of credit because they typically have expiration dates on them that the bank will insure them through. And I assume it's related to the bank evaluating their credit at that time and deciding whether they want to issue another letter of credit to that person's benefit. So this may have been either a change in the bank that was insured, or is now being insured. So that was the reason why the bank is not able to allow it to be insured. And I think it's a nice way to explain that. You get a lot of credit from the last couple of years. And then you get a lot of credit from the bank. But that's the reason why they're not getting him or just a renewal letter of credit because in that it goes on to say that the road was completed and driving out that road that road does look very completed other than now at this point there are major cracks in the asphalt it doesn't have its final you know asphalt um but even in what you say 2016 it just seems like we dropped the ball substantially and allowing it to be so insignificant that bond yeah um i was actually uh working on a road paving program for the town of charlesburg in 2018 and was thinking back to that time frame and costs as i thought about this issue and um if there were not base repairs to be made if there were not other safety issues to grade or otherwise and if you had a contractor in the area it may have been possible to topcoat that road for that amount but the location of that area is not the same as the area that we're in right now so i think it's a good idea to be aware of that the area assuming that there were still base deficiencies eight years ago out there and the reality that mobilizing a contractor out that far would have costs in and of itself i agree that it's probably was not an appropriate amount for the reduction at that time frame other questions i'm not gonna put you on the spot mr pearson but i'm just trying to get a feel do you have any idea on the potential future liability of all the other roads and if you don't you can get get it for us but my concern is what's the opening how many more 50,000 100,000 200,000 etc do we have that's why I'm more thinking of how do we as a committee solve the problem to play whatever that solution is equally as opposed to taking a piecemeal yeah I do not have a valuation on that I know the value of the bonds we hold but in order to determine a figure you're looking for I would have to estimate the necessary improvements to be done in each one of those projects and I could take the estimate I'm not asking you to run to the moon and back so I don't know how much work I'm asking you to do and other board members and you know put their thoughts in here too but if it's relatively easy to get at least a ballpark I'm just curious what the ballpark liability is because we've already had two of these a couple years ago McCarthy is vice chair strongly advocated for it now we have another one one two years ago was you know 200,000 this is gonna be a $250,000 difference so I'm just trying to feel for that I understand and I know you've always appreciated my candor in our conversations it's too much work to evaluate that and it and I think the benefits you would derive from us evaluating what I assume is probably at least 200 different projects from a cost estimating perspective wouldn't pay off and providing you any assurance in that case let me make a quick comment to the board if that's the case you know maybe we as a board need to think through how do we address the next one in the following one as opposed to just dealing with this as a piecemeal basis whatever we do with IOS Lane is setting up a new policy for the community and we're trying to get that through I mean I think a lot of the things that we've been talking about in the past and what we've been talking about in our discussions about this new policy is that we need to think through how do we address the next one and if that's the case then that's fine too but I think collectively we ought to think that through Thank You mr. Pearson I appreciate your help absolutely any other questions mr. chairman one other thing that you know I've looked at all of the statements we've made of the reports of presidents of consortia and the premier of California and other boards I there was a complaint that was is there another way to address it well Let me just wrap this up and I want to tell the hearing to pull up their Evidence� the safety part of it is that 70,000 like he said is we're gonna have to return the rest to the developer which doesn't seem right well so that as I understand it that's because we put a restriction on the funds we thought it would take that to at least take the first measure and fix the safety concerns since since the bonds been pulled if it's not used to improve Isles Lane then it would need to be returned am i am i right mr. County Attorney that is correct the condition is for that but since we restricted it also by saying safety to apply it to safety that could be what triggers funds to be returned safety doesn't cost that much so it seems like at the very first thing we need to do is remove that restriction so those funds don't go back and they can be used by whoever fixes the road whether it's the county the homeowners you know some other solution right I think that's the under understanding we doubt that would that's correct and the consideration of the remaining shortfall having administered road paving programs I wouldn't suggest that you only allocate $71,000 to this to this road because just the nature of applying a topcoat and only doing a portion of it may not make sense so for as far as how much it would cost we have two different supplement two different approach appropriations proposed we got a letter from one citizen that questioned the three hundred and thirty thousand dollars out of the transportation fund that that should have gone through a process including the Transportation Committee I don't know if that's correct so I'll clarify things as they stand today three hundred and thirty thousand dollars is the total request the board and with its last authorization has appropriated seventy thousand dollars and one citizen for that of $ Sprinkle some of the item for the transportation issue that was submitted to the Charlotte public University and we are happy to hear that! you all met this morning no Nam idea find her anytime later if you소 you we meet again tomorrow? please do tell me the details you don't already as a. $71,825 to the Transportation Fund for the express purpose of safety improvements on Isles Lane. The remaining shortfall that is unappropriated and would need to be transferred from the General Fund to the Transportation Fund would be that $258,175 if it was the Board's intention to finish Isles Lane and put it into the state system. The comment regarding the Transportation Fund, it is only serving as a vehicle for the expenditure of these funds. So we have not taken bond issues through the Transportation Committee in the past. They've gone to the Finance Committee. No, I've got it. That's not out of the Transportation Fund. That's the bond passing through it. That's right. It's where we have, as county staff, elected to expend funds out of for road improvements now. The request is for $258,175 to finish. That would be $258,175. That would be the amount to cover the shortfall, yes sir. So we had a discussion that it might not cost near that much once, you know, everyone estimates conservatively we're high for the cost. Sure. So in working with VDOT, the Public Works Director went out and performed a punch list and in our experience working with them, their initial punch lists before contractors on site are a bit overzealous and that is representative of the projects that I listed that had been processed previously. So that's the appropriation for Marion Drive was higher than the project cost by I think about $50,000 and the same applied for Yardmaster. And so those appropriations were based on those initial VDOT punch lists and then an estimate provided by the contractor. But when they get on site, VDOT staff is very accommodating and only doing what's necessary to give them confidence that they'll be comfortable maintaining it moving into the future. Okay. So our hope is that if we approve $258,000, it'll be a good deal. Okay. So our hope is that if we approve $258,000, it'll cost us some significant amount less than that to finish the job. Okay. So our hope is that if we approve $258,000, it'll cost us some significant amount less than that to finish the job. Okay. So our hope is that if we approve $258,000, it'll cost us some significant amount less than that to finish the job. Mr. Chairman. I will go ahead and make a motion after this but, I've lost my train if but I guess I'll go ahead and make the motion. I make the motion that we go ahead and the county goes ahead in the $250,175. Mr. Chairman. I will go ahead and make a motion after this but, I've lost my train of thought. I guess I'll go ahead and make the motion I make the motion that we go ahead and the county goes ahead and the 250,175. to complete aisles lane so we can turn it over to the state to VDOT we have a motion on the table do we have a second second so we have a second discussion my question to all of you is what we do going forward and and so if it's going to be the county has an obligation to go and fix these old older bonds I don't have an answer here but do we collectively want to go and try to address that issue to think that through or is that not necessary I'm just one of seven but that's the thing that I'm wrestling with is if we have another issue that comes up you know in six months or a year or two years we've had three now right here Marion Drive Yardmaster one item did not cost a whole two to three projects did not cost a lot of it I just think we ought to go and think through the policy as opposed to piece well and maybe I'm wrong but I'm just throwing out the thought to you as what all of you think well I certainly think it's valuable to think about the bigger picture but but that's perhaps separate from the particular motion on the floor about about this particular action and we've all heard about the moral hazard here that there are districts that pay to pay for their own road problems. And that's, I think, swayed the county last meeting, the board rather. Since then, I've heard the argument that the people who bought on Isles Lane, like so many other people who build their homes, they were promised by the developer who may have left them holding the bag by not finishing it. Although Wyatt has said that perhaps, had it gone to completion at the time, maybe that would have covered it. We've had other discussions where we don't think we have any legal options to go get more funds from the developer. So that is close to us. So that's the difference there, that many people in the county are promised by the developer and then now, which was not true for Shawnee Land back then, now the county does make a promise in the form of managing bonds to try and limit damages like happened to Shawnee Land. And that effectively is another commitment that home buyers are thinking they're getting, that the county is also guaranteeing behind the developer that something gets done. So it's definitely a quandary for us. In the future, Wyatt has said that the hope is that this would be less often and less severe because we're much smarter about bonds now. We introduced that some years ago and now we review them more regularly. We have to review them more regularly and reissue them. So have them reissued so that to minimize risk to a much greater extent even then for this situation. But it doesn't change the fact that we have this problem now. And that's just a comment for discussion on my part. Any other comments before we vote on the motion? Yep. If I end up voting for this, just recognize that there's approximately $100,000 a year coming out of these existing, existing items. So basically in two and a half years, that would be covering that cost. To the people in Isles Lane, your cost, you're generating revenue, but it's actually, you still have an impact to the county that's greater than that. So just recognize that. Thank you. Are we ready for a vote? Very good. I will start where I didn't hear many comments. I'm curious how this will go. Supervisor, so the motion on the table is to approve the funds out of the County General Fund to finish the road and apply it to turn it over to VDOT. Supervisor Jewell? No. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor Wells? Yes. Supervisor Dunn? I vote no until, I'm going to vote no until we can solve this problem on a broader basis. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes no at this time. I'd like also to look for another option. Well, I agree with that. I think it may be possible to get this road fixed in a more cost-effective manner or a cost-sharing manner. We just have to be creative and come up with that approach in the next two weeks. If we can't solve it, we can't not, in my opinion, we cannot leave this road to decay and we'll have to take some measure. We have to fix this. It's just that I'm not sure. We're all unhappy that the vet, the developer left it in this shape and that the county may have made a mistake with the bond. And we've got to see what we can do. Now, do we need a motion immediately to change the restriction on the bond funds being applied only to safety so they don't get returned? I don't think there's any immediate concern as it relates to the return of the bond money. I would be curious to receive direction for the board on what and when to proceed. I'd like to hear what plays out in theirody and if you would consider that decision. For the bestuję like, or you know, if the Department of underneath services proposes a removal of this extension of safety to increase safety provisions under their own code. And the Mist considered, and is the newazed if by some other other provision I should take that section, the central association bill besides the transition user flatten website I want to refer to this faktorism table. As I pointed out, there is an exception the other day, if there are any exceptions, and I wanted to make sure that won't happen. again I know he's not on the hook perhaps legally but he does have a reputation in the county which could affect his future business it's an option but the non responsiveness is it related to pulling the bond I think is an indication of what we would receive especially since the bonds been pulled can I ask is there any way of doing some sort of special assessment where we would fund it but set it up like Shawnee land or Lake Holiday Sanitary District and have the people pay theoretically yes there are legal mechanisms to do that there is an administrative burden which theoretically can be cost passed on as part of that cost as well but it's that's a that's a decision for the board to make about whether we want to end up setting up these little things here and there to solve these problems thank you yes mr. Pearson from my perspective if you could give me a little bit of a sense of what the board is doing in terms of the land ownership and land ownership and land ownership and land ownership and land ownership and land ownership and land ownership and work with whoever you want to board members or committee members or whatever to say if this occurs in the future how do we address it I guess I'm looking at the broader situation of how do we address future potential delinquencies failures etc that would probably be what I'm looking for and whether it's the board will go and pay was a combination of the board and landowners involved whether you have a situation similar to Shawnee land where you have a district set up but I like to see what the options are so that there are future ones there'd be consistency and then address that as opposed to just this specific I'm looking to see how do we solve this if it comes up again a second time or third time that's best would be helpful to me on the thought process mr. chair obviously everyone's looking at different ideas I think at this point in time why don't we as a staff go back look at the options like that and see if we can give a list of all the different ideas and bring it back to this board and maybe give better ideas to the board or maybe we can go back to the board and say hey I think we've got some questions I think we've got some good ideas to everybody special assessments different ways of doing the cost and I'll give us some time to give it all more options thank you yeah there was a moral hazard I don't know if that's the right term that we left off to by having County taxpayers pay for it we're also sending a signal potentially to other developers that if they cut corners they can't get behind and we don't want to send that signal we want to do whatever we can to encourage developers as well as ourselves in in monitoring these things to make sure this doesn't happen again without consequences mr. chairman the one thing I would offer just for the board's understanding there is a severe implication to the developers credit by us pulling that bond their credit worthiness so no well there is not an ability to hold them the further accountable I think we all feel that they should be is not without consequence mr. chairman thank you though is that clear enough instruction then thank you so the next the next item on the agenda then is 90 discussion of draft policy regarding signs on county-owned properties mnie and New Plymouth received federal federal notice rectangle 25 an из 64ナ vomit all the I could also option that satisfies those two standards is the option that the board ended up following in the fall, which was limiting the size of the signs. But practically speaking, the only two legal and enforceable, again, practically enforceable options are either not permitting any signs or permitting signs but having their size be limited to whatever size the board decides. But I think I noted in the memo and in some other correspondence to the board that other options just don't work. What cannot be done is attempting to regulate them based upon whose they are or how many somebody has because those either are not legally possible or, again, practically ascertainable, particularly... MR. ...as far as whose they are because whatever message is on them, we have no way of knowing who put that message there, particularly if they're handmade. And I think I noted for the board in one of my messages to you as far as trying to regulate it based upon campaign rules and saying that we're only going to allow so many people to put a message up. MR. Right. MR. And so, based upon who paid for and authorized it, the problem there is a handmade sign is not regulated by campaign finance. So we have no way of knowing who made a campaign, a handmade sign and therefore cannot, have no way of counting those signs to say, well, there's three of this one that say that and three where the person took a Sharpie and wrote that. There's no way to do it. So what you have before you is basically one of... MR. Right. MR. ...the most important things. MR. Right. MR. So, we've been dealing with this for, thinking about this issue for six months or so, well, maybe not quite, I guess four or five. And my conclusion ends up at you have the option that's before you, and you could certainly possibly make some modifications to it, or allowing signs of a certain size, but an unlimited number of them. That's my presentation. MR. Thank you. So, I'm going to go to the next one. MR. Okay. Discussion on a potential ordinance on signs on county owned properties. MR. Mr. Chairman, to be clear, this is not an ordinance. This is just a policy. This is a policy for the county's management of a commercial property. MR. Thank you. Discussion? MR. Mr. Chairman? MR. Yes. MR. After just going through an election, especially where Red Shore is located, it's not, signs are not necessary. People are out handing literature every day, and I actually think that the signs are a safety issue for folks, from what I could see. I really, really feel that, and I just think, you know, as a guy that's got 500 signs sitting in the basement, signs are not necessary. I really think that we should be, you know, just, people can hand out the literature and do what they want, you know, appropriately, as they're supposed to. But, you know, the signs. MR. To your point of a safety issue, we have an interesting situation there, where the registrar's office is, and now we're required to have many, many, many days of early voting. The road right in front of the registrar's office between, if anyone's seen it, the registrar's office and the other commercial business in the big parking lot, that actually qualifies as a road, I believe. No, that's a parking lot. MR. It is not a public road for traffic, law enforcement purposes. MR. It's hard to tell, because residents nearby often use it as a road. And I was there, where a situation where somebody crossing to vote walked in front of a vehicle, believing they were in a parking lot, and they had the right to walk, and the driver had to stop. But the driver clearly felt that he was driving on a road, and they weren't crossing at a crosswalk and kept going. And no one was hit, but it ended up in bad words. We also had a situation where we had a storm go through, and the signs blew all over the lot, and people were driving over them. So our setup at the registrar's office is not ideal for early voting for so many days. And there's got to be some structure to it. And if the only way we can do it, we might have to ban all signs in order to have a safe voting environment. Most early voters are educated. They're only voting for a reason. They've looked it up, and they know what they're going there for. I did discuss with Mr. Venskoski about, can we post information about who's running outside? And he said, well, if there's a ban on signs, it applies to our office, too. We can't put it outside. But they could put in the window so that people who show up not knowing what to expect on the ballot, they're going to be handed. So they could look it over or have a link they can scan that'll take them to their ballot. So there might be other solutions for replacing the information lost by removing the signs. But that's as far as I've thought about it. Any other comments? Mr. Chairman, are we looking for a motion? I think we are. A motion on whether we want to adopt this draft policy or have it further studied if you find fault with it. So in the adoption, are we... If I make a motion that we do not allow signs... Mr. Venskoski? Yes, I'll make my motion. Ms. Melina? Will you accept the proposal if we organs sign a number of all changes to the bill when it's tongue crooked? The Incarnate compartir anぇ plan, which we would allow to adopt, including a red button, we would clause ordered to lumps the tree out to what we are asking for and in some cases to hibernate the term of homestead or to stand, and do as such, not meaning that we need so many tasting lands to meet and be treated like sudden cyclical. But there is our motion on required. Mr. Thompson. at least this was my intention, take or leave what I'm saying, is that by referring to the Sunnyside property, it is the entire Sunnyside Plaza property. And that property is, for point of information, the building that the voter office is in, as well as obviously its immediate parking lot, the large parking lot, which is about 380 parking spaces, that is in front of the main shopping center where the Food Lion used to be, and that entire building, as well as the entrance driveway up to that parking lot that comes in off of Route 522. All of what I just described are, I call it privately owned. I realize it's owned by the county, but those are owned as quote-unquote private property as opposed to public rights of way. None of it is VDOT maintained. They are just all parking lots. And the policy, and I think it says applies to the Sunnyside property, the policy would apply to that entire complex, which is approximately, I think, 10 acres. So in practice, if people put signs there, the county would pull those signs? Correct. Because they'd be in violation. I would make that motion. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Question. Question for the county attorney. If John Doe brings in his tractor-trailer that says, done for president, is that then a constitutive sign where you can pull that out? Then the next person brings in his sign that says, Smith for president, et cetera. How do you prevent that? Would that be included in the sign? If the vehicles are validly registered, we're not going to be able to prevent that absent a parking regulation. And I think, honestly, the only parking regulation we have there now, is no overnight, no extended. But, again, it becomes a practical issue of distinguishing between somebody who's there doing business. I mean, we do have paying tenants. And we do, from time to time, allow use of the prop. Like, for instance, during the James Wood High School project, we allowed the contractors from James Wood to stage some of their equipment and vehicles there. And I think we even allowed them to use some of the interior space for storage of materials. Okay. It is a going business premises. So the idea that somebody could park a large vehicle with signage on it, I don't think we can do anything about. Honestly, they could just as easily, also, with practically the same effect, park them on the side of the road on Fox Drive adjacent to it. All right. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, can I make a comment? I feel like this is silly. I feel like it's limiting free speech. I feel that when you're running a business, you're going to have to have a lot of people in the building. And I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. If they're running a campaign, if they were to slam me with campaign signs, then that's their prerogative. I'm going to vote no on this. I think we need free speech. And if we want to work on the process, we need to get rid of all this early voting. That would be awesome, to vote on one single day in November. But anyways, that's my two cents. Any other comments on this? Question, Mr. Chairman? Yes. Just a question. Call for a question. We need to vote on this, on whether to adopt. The motion is to, yes, to adopt these restrictions. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Aye. Chairman votes aye, and the motion passes. Next subject. Appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. I believe we removed 10A for the time being. 10B is still on the agenda. Mr. Chairman, I make a motion that we approve Rhonda Sargent for the vacant two-year term for the Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee. Second, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman, Rhonda comes with a lot of experience. She's retired. She lives in the community. She's there. And I just think this is a great, great opportunity to get somebody on the advisory board. I will tell my friends in the Shawnee Land that I'll make sure you know when there's an opportunity for the next open. So I'll be sure to do that. And I'll be sure to do that, and I'll be sure to do that in the future. Thank you. I'll only... Oh, Supervisor Dunn? Quick comment. I've voted before. I would say... I've made a comment before that I think the Shawnee Land ought to be able to basically have an election, decide whom they want to do. So I'm going to vote no on this one policy, but it's not personal to Mrs. Sargent. Any other comments? I know I received a number of emails, people actually concerned about what is a plus for some people who are experts. I think they just don't have enough expertise working for the county for so long, including with public works and dealing with Shawnee Land. They feel like... Those emails I've gotten suggest that they feel like she would more represent county interests than local interests, although she does live there. So I'm not sure how to take that, but there is that sentiment out there, and I understand both sides. So are we ready to vote? Any other comment? I'll make another comment. Certainly. Are you talking to... Someone who spent 40 years working for the United States Senate, and I'm very proud of my tenure with the Senate. So during the campaign, I was a 30- or 40-year government bureaucrat. Just because somebody works for the public does not mean that they're a bad person. And I think that that's got to stop. I really do think that that message has got to stop. As a civil servant, you're there serving the public, whether it's at the county level, the federal level, the state level. Whatever. So I'm really tired of hearing that. We have really good people that are out there who want to do the right thing. So that's my comment. Well, I didn't mean to apply. They did not say that she was a bad person, but just that there's some kind of conflict was their impression. It was someone who's worked so long with the county policy, representing them rather than homeowners who have not been a part of the county government on that particular subject. So I just wanted to acknowledge that we've received... that sentiment. So, if we're ready to vote, this is on approval of the appointment. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The chairman votes no. The motion passes. Next subject. Oh, and so... Ronda Sargent is appointed to the Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee. The next subject is 10C, the Extension Leadership Council. We have more appointments to consider. First up is in the Back Creek District, Brandon Monk. His term expires in four days. He is eligible and willing to serve another term. How does the board want to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I make the motion. That was... I have a motion that we approve Brandon Monk for a four-year term. I've talked to Brandon. He is willing to serve, and I'm excited to be working with him. Second, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The chairman votes aye. The motion passes. The next... Seat is for Gainesboro District. The four-year term, again, on the Extension Leadership Council. The four-year term of Rose McDonald's expires later this month, on the 26th. Ms. McDonald is eligible and willing to serve another term. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would like to make a motion for Rose McDonald. I have spoken with her, and she's excited to serve. Appoint... Yes. I make a motion to have her serve another term. Do we have a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chairman votes aye, and the motion passes. The next candidate is Raymond Cross, again for Extension Leadership Council. His four-year term expires also on the 26th of this month. Mr. Cross did not wish to be reappointed. So we were given the application of Ms. Allison White. This is again Opecan. So, Supervisor Wells, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move to appoint Allison White for a four-year term on the Extension Leadership Council. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? I'm sorry, I'm going the wrong direction. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion passes. Aye, Mr. Chairman. Did I miss? Yes, sir. I'm going to create a new sheet for doing this so I know which direction I'm going. Sorry about that. 10-D, Social Services Board. Alan Morrison has resigned his unexpired term representing Gainesboro. We have a unique situation. We have a unique situation. We have a new situation where Sharon Gromling, who represents Stonewall currently, her term was going to expire on the 22nd of this month, but because of redistricting, her home was moved into Gaines. Well, it wasn't moved, obviously. She's now a resident of Gainesboro District, and she is eligible to serve another term. So they have agreed that he would resign so we could appoint her to the Gainesboro District represent— as the Gainesboro District representative. Supervisor Lockridge, how would you like to answer that? Yes, I would like to make a motion to appoint Sharon Gromling. I've spoken with her, and I've also spoken with the Director of Social Services. She's a great asset to that team. Thank you. Do we have a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. And I can tell you that I'm sorry to lose her for Stonewall representative because she's done an outstanding job. Fantastic. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. I didn't miss you this time. The Chairman votes aye. The motion passes. Item 11, there's no committee business. Item 12, public hearings on non-planning issues. There are none. Item 13, here we get into our public hearings on planning issues. 13A is number 0123 Madison, LLC. Wyatt? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm certain you all will be sick of me before the end of the night, but let's get into this one immediately. With the amendment to your agenda, we'll be presenting three comprehensive plan amendments, and the following slide applies to all of those. So the comprehensive plan amendment process includes requests to amend the plan, and within your comprehensive plan, there's criteria for your consideration that's on the screen. So does it benefit the public health, safety, and welfare? Is it consistent with your comprehensive plan? Will it be detrimental to uses of the property in immediate vicinity? Does it have merit and value for the community as a whole? And will it result in benefits that outweigh any significant impact of the change? Our process began back in June 1st when the deadline for applications passed, and we've since been making our way through committee and joint meetings with you and your planning commission. We're at the tail end of that process at the board public hearings. Thank you.토 So inétat for agricultural and residential purposes. To orient you to the location, if you were to head on 277 this way, you'd be heading towards Double Tollgate. Heading back to the west, you'd be heading towards Stevens City. Properties outlined in blue here, and this is the Lake Frederick Development Zone, R5, just south of it. So the requested change includes establishing a new non-contiguous urban development area, which I'll go into a little bit more in a minute, to retain the future land use designation that exists for a mixed-use commercial office bay on the front of the property, to modify the mixed-use industrial office land use designation and change that to neighborhood village, to keep the existing neighborhood village land bay, and then to clean up the industrial designation to neighborhood village as well. So to illustrate those changes, again, the property's outlined in blue. This orange color is the mixed-use commercial office bay. Candy cane is mixed-use commercial office bay. This is the mixed-use industrial office, and the polka dot down here is your neighborhood village. The industrial designation is shown in blue on the other side of the riparian area that's designated in green. So the modifications requested, oops, there you go, modifications requested would change that mixed-use industrial office bay to neighborhood village, and the industrial bay to neighborhood village as well. You can see in black, the urban development area would now surround the property, and to zoom out a little bit, again, here's the property in question. Your existing urban development area is back in this area near the, near Sherando High School. If you're familiar with the Forest Lakes Mobile Homes community, that's right there. So the change to add a new non-contiguous urban development area would wrap around the property in question. There's a dotted black line that you can see, and at staff's recommendation, we're also advising that, include the Lake Frederick development. Absent inclusion of the Lake Frederick development, we really don't think it makes sense to do a standalone urban development area for this property alone, but this is, in our opinion, a better solution if the board likes the application than extending the existing urban development area and encompassing all this industrial property and potentially allowing it to then apply for rezoning for residential. In addition to the map changes, the applicant has proposed some text amendments. In summary, these include conceptual ties to the Lake Frederick development as it relates to how they intend to build their community out, to ensure that there's interconnectivity, both vehicular and pedestrian, between Lake Frederick and themselves, if at all viable, and then to indicate that they think there's an opportunity to utilize the commercial areas at the front of the property for what they've termed medical uses. Some of the relevant agency comments, it includes Frederick County Public School, which only has capacity at the middle school level currently for the districts in question. Frederick Water will likely be able to serve the property with sanitary sewer if they're successful in a force main project they intend to construct that is due for completion in 2026. And then VDOT anticipates the project is likely to generate less traffic than the current planned uses, which includes changing that mixed-use industrial office bay, but at the time of rezoning, they would, obviously, need to study the traffic generation and analyze any additional potential impacts that could occur from development of the property. Some of your staff's conclusion include that the industrial designation is really a cleanup exercise. It's a small sliver of property that exists on the western side of the riparian area and is too small to develop with viable industrial uses. Furthermore, the mixed-use industrial office designation is becoming less likely and supported by market demand due to the changes to the office bay, which is a little bit more expensive. The Bay itself isn't really big enough to support any other uses than office. And then if the application has merit otherwise, as I stated earlier, we do think from a planning perspective, stretching the urban development area out from its current termination out to this property doesn't make sense, but wrapping it around Lake Frederick to anchor it to an existing development and include this property with it would be a better way of achieving that same goal. Thank you. Ms. Lueb. Mr. Lueb, thank you. Mr. Krohn. Mr. Lueb. Your Conference of Plans and Programs Committee recommended approval of this at their November 13th meeting, and the Planning Commission recommended approval at their December 6th meeting. Following a public hearing, we're seeking action on this application from the Board of Supervisors. I'm happy to answer any questions. The applicant's representative, Mr. Craig George, is also here and available to answer any questions you all may have. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Thank you, Wyatt. Any questions for Wyatt? Mr. Pearson, go back in here. Mr. Thank you. go back to the to the map for me so that property is gonna sit right next to where Rachel Drive will be extended correct yeah Rachel Carson Drive will likely be extended and terminate right here at 277 with a new connection and access I just want to point that out to everybody that then so they know that there's future road going down through there any other questions for Wyatt before you begin these the applicant gonna come and talk I don't think mr. George has a presentation but I'm sure he's happy to answer any questions that you all might have I was gonna ask and ask if anyone has questions for the applicant you do okay none more for Wyatt then we can move to the applicant sir are you willing to answer questions good evening my name is Craig George I'm a landscape architect at Valley Engineering here representing the applicant I'm just happy to answer mr. Pearson did a great job of kind of giving the overview you will add the site is constrained with the sort of the one of the main drainage drains into Lake Frederick so it cuts the site east and west and then there's also a future minor arterial that goes east west that cuts it sort of north and south so it's a big cross going through the site so really just the land use adjustments is really just as a result of that constraint and as mr. Pearson said a little sliver of industrial property does not make sense along the western boundary and then the other adjustment and internally in the middle pod was to just take some stuff out take some land out of industrial office and in parent with the adjacent neighborhood village so really just some some some cleanup internal to the site thank you supervisor done I believe that Madison LLC is the same entity that developed sovereign village 20 years ago is that correct I'm not aware says can you repeat that that I believe that Madison LLC yes and the owners of Madison LLC are the same builders and developers that did saw Trying toenges. So I fully understand that we are in a comp-plan amendment not a rezoning amendment correct but because of instance has occurred there you go back to the applicant and ask him he's would be willing to restrict his building on weekends Saturdays and Sundays on holidays and how do you address the situation when when, because this is adjacent to a number of homes, how do you address this situation if you have somebody that has medical issues and can they provide some type of working with a family as opposed to starting at six o'clock in the morning? So if you've been in situations where you had to be all night taking care of a family member having to wake up at six o'clock in the morning after having no sleep for the last 24 hours is difficult. So I'm asking Mr. Madison if he will go and if that similar situation occurs again, whether he's open to modifications. So he might start at 8 or 8.30. If there's none, that's fine, but I think there has to be consideration based upon previous experience. Yeah, that's definitely something we consider during the resigning phase. The vast majority of the sites are already designated as neighborhood village, so we'd be there having those discussions regardless. I understand that. And for me to vote yes on this today, I'm gonna have to have that issue addressed. If the Board votes yes, fine. If the Board postpones this, we have further discussion on that, that's fine. But I'd like to see those restrictions in place before I'd be willing to vote yes on this today. Supervisor Dunn. I think this would be better brought up when the rezoning comes up. I understand what you're talking about, but right now we're not talking about anything other than changing the definition of the land. So, I understand where you are, but I think that's when we would nail this on the rezoning. Mr. Wells, I agree with you, but because I don't know when it might come up, that's why I'm just making the comments here now because- I understand, I understand. Thank you, any other questions for the applicant? Mr. Chairman, not for the applicant, but for Mr. Pearson, I think this is a really good opportunity to educate the public a little bit. This is a comprehensive planned amendment. This is not rezoning, because a lot of people think, oh here we go. Thank you, sir. So, I think that would be a good opportunity for WI to bring that up. That's right, thank you Mr. Jewell for pulling me up here for exactly that opportunity. I recognize my use of planning jargon can go over people's heads very quickly. So, let me redo this a little bit and explain that, as Mr. Jewell stated, the comprehensive plan is basically a blueprint for the intention of how the community would like to develop. And this amendment is a blueprint for the intention of how the community would like to develop. And this amendment is changing that intention. It's not granting any rights to this property owner to then go and build apartments or otherwise, but it is setting the stage for a future application where they would request to have those rights. There'd be further evaluation of what the impacts would be at the rezoning stage, and likely the applicant would need to mitigate those impacts by offering proffers or otherwise, or designing their development in a manner to where they don't create impacts. So, in addition to that, I use the term urban development area or UDA, and that is a specific planning policy that's been held by the board for the better part of two or three decades. And the significance of establishing this property in the UDA is that they would then qualify to rezone, potentially for dense residential uses. Whereas right now, it's out further in the middle of the county where there is not the intention of the board to entertain, residential rezonings for dense uses. That's contradictory in this situation because you see Lake Frederick adjoining it, which is a relatively dense residential community, but that development predates the board's UDA policy. So, is there anything else that I probably blew through that I could have gone into more detail with, Mr. Drew? I just think it's a great opportunity to educate the public. Yes, thank you, sir. Thank you. So, this is a public hearing, so, Thank you. Are we done with questions from the board? This is a public hearing. Is there anyone signed up to speak? Heather Hoyt. My name is Heather Hoyt. I live directly across from the said property. You can pull the camera. I have a question. I have a question. As far as Fairfax Pike. I've lived there for 10 years. It is horrible. And if VDOT tells you that the traffic on that road is great, I'm just wondering how this new development and now having an access literally out my front door is going to affect, because it's going to affect me directly, because that's my driveway. We've already had three accidents, including the postal service, just trying to pull into our driveway. Now, I'm just wondering, how is this going to affect me? How is this going to affect me? How is this going to affect me? How is this going to affect me? How is this going to affect me? And now if you add all this other new development and that much more traffic, it just kind of really concerns me a lot. Anyway, that's kind of just what I wanted to say. Thank you. Thank you. That's the end of the list. Is there anyone else here who would like to speak on this Comprehensive Plan Amendment proposal? I believe that's fine, yes. Okay. I just wanted to quickly address the traffic. One of the requirements for submitting the application is to do a traffic analysis based on the ITE manual and look at the existing uses within the site of where it's at now. And the piece that we're moving from commercial into neighborhood village is actually a higher intensity of traffic use according to ITE. So what we're looking at, if you could wave a magic wand and develop one way out, it's actually a reduction of 12% traffic. So if this were to proceed, any detailed traffic would be addressed during the rezoning as far as what road improvements may or may not be required. But in a general overview as a bubble diagram, it's a reduction of 12%. Thank you. Anyone else would like to speak on this? Thank you, Naaman, Majesty. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Naaman, Magisterial District. How you doing? My name is Mark Waddell. I live on 277. I actually live about a quarter mile from the actual water tower itself. So with that, with an entranceway coming on that side of 277, what does that actually do for the main road itself? Is that going to have the road widen and affect houses on the road? Or what does that actually do? So Robert's Rules of Order does not allow us to answer questions. But we will answer it if you put it to us. After the meeting, we'll take it. Yeah, I think that's just the main concern for me for at this point. Thank you. Your question does inform us. Yep. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? None heard. There's a gentleman coming. Oh. Thank you, sir. Naaman, Magisterial District. Hello. My name's Carl Williams. I live in the Opecan Magistrate. Right across the road from where this is going to be at as well. I'm neighbors with the Hoyts. I live right directly behind them. We actually share a driveway. I want to just be known that I'm totally against all this. You know, we just talked up here about and seeing Mr. Lawrence about the water shortage that there already is in the county. And where is this subdivision going to get water from? On top of that, our road is terrible there. It's 55 mile an hour speed limit. But people run 70, 75 mile an hour down through there. The turn that we live on, the accidents that Ms. Hoyt were talking about, one of them was with me. The car right behind me as I'm waiting to turn into my driveway got rear-ended. I almost got rear-ended in a three-car there. This is just going to bring more traffic. You know, I don't think it's, this is just a totally bad idea. Bringing that road out there is, it's just a bad idea. I really am against it. I would really like to go on record saying that. Thank you, sir. And is there anyone else who would like to speak? None heard or seen this time. I'll close the public comment phase. Board, do you have comment or questions? We'll go ahead and make a motion if I may. Thank you. Thank you. We'll go ahead and make a motion if that's all right. We can. Mr. Chairman, I would move the Board accept CPP A number one, number 0123 Madison LLC as presented. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? I'll second it. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman, I'm sitting there thinking the exact same things. I just look at our water. I just can't approve more houses. I know this is just a comprehensive plan. This is not a rezoning, but just wanted to put it out there that I think the infrastructure in Frederick County is really lacking. So, thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to point this out. That is industrial currently. Right. So, by right, you can have industrial go in there and build there. So, you still have a water problem. Water issue is a water issue. Water issue is a water issue. But the water issue is a water issue. So, I'm going to move the Board accept CPP A number one, number 0123 Madison LLC as presented. Any discussion? No. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, this is, I'm going to make sure this is why I asked why I had to step back up there because people are not catching these. Very good. Also, our schools are very overcrowded on that side. So, I'm going to go ahead and say that for multiple reasons maybe I'm going to have to vote. I don't know. And Rachel Carson Road is going in. That road is, that's already approved. That's going to happen. So, this is why I'm going to, while I'm up here these four years, I'm going to tell folks to get on that website and look at the comprehensive plan. and watch planning and watch because we need to educate our constituents so they can see what's happening. In our planning department, our planning committee was unanimous, I believe, in their vote. Am I correct? You were. You were chairman at that time. Thank you, sir. I believe one may have voted no in planning. Yeah, it was me. Voted no for this one? Yes, I did. Okay. Because I wanted to talk to people. And I also felt that this was way two weeks before I'm going on the Board of Supervisors. So it's really a, you know, I actually talked to our county attorney about, you know, just recusing myself. So that's, yes, I'm the one that voted no. Gotcha. Thank you. So we have a motion and we had a second. Is that right? Yes, sir. Any more discussion? So this is on accountability. Comprehensive plan amendment to approve the change into the vision of what that would be in the future. This is not a vote to actually make the change or authorize building at this time. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Jones? Aye. Supervisor Leopold? Aye. The chair votes no. The motion passes. So the comprehensive plan amendment is approved. The next item is 13B. Excuse me. So that was taken off the agenda for today. Correct. The next item then is 13C, the comprehensive plan amendment 03-23, the Brockton property. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Same conditions apply. This is the next item please. Very wellạ Next item, our last item is About 0,5ねぇ, What do you want to look at now on力? muchísimoÉ R pal... The Young? The property in question is outlined in blue. Here's the Route 37 interchange. James Wood High School is just off the map to the north. The changes being requested again are to extend the sewer and water service area, which would authorize the ability to connect to public utilities in the near vicinity and to change the comprehensive plan designation from rural area to a business designation. Here's the property again on the current long range land use map. So that shows that the intention currently in your comprehensive plan is for it to remain rural. And this is the proposed change to that long range land use map, which brings the green line, which is the sewer and water service area out along it, and changes the designation for business uses. Your relevant agency comments include Frederick Water thinks that they are able to serve the property, but the developer's likely to incur major expenses to extend the lines. VDOT noted that there are existing safety issues in this area. Currently, in careful consideration of that at the rezoning stage would be very appropriate. And then the Historic Resource Advisory Board recommended investigating the property for remnants of the second Winchester battle. Our conclusions include that Route 37 has traditionally acted as the boundary for more intensive and residential development in the county. The proposed land use designation as it's offered is very much in keeping with existing development patterns that you see at current intersections with Route 37, and other interchanges in the county. And if the properties west of this location were to be planned for commercial uses, it may make sense to then cohesively consider this property as part of that planning exercise, which is currently underway, and that's the Western Frederick land use plan. So your CPPC recommended approval at their November 13th meeting. The Planning Commission recommended approval at their December 6th meeting. And similarly, Mr. Chairman, this is a public hearing, and we're seeking action from the board on this request. Happy to answer any questions. The applicant's representative, Mr. David Frank, is here, and happy to answer any questions you all may have as well. I don't believe David has a presentation on this item. Okay. Any questions for staff, Mr. Chairman? Oh, I'm sorry, any questions for Wyatt? So there was a recommendation from the Historic Resources Board about examining the property for historical. How would that occur? Would the county undertake that, or would that be a requirement on the developer? I think it's something that could be further contemplated at the rezoning stage, potentially as a proffer from the developer. We've seen in the past if there's an architecturally significant structure that they document that prior to demolition. I'm not sure if this rises to the significance of an archeological survey, because I have every expectation that the development of Route 37 likely disturbed any remnants in that general area, given its proximity to that project. But that's how it could look, and we can definitely consider it at the rezoning stage, sir. Thank you. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name's David Frank. I'm with Pannoni Associates, and I'm representing the application here this evening. I will keep it brief. I will also address the comment the chairman brought up. About six months ago, this process started. There were several subcommittee meetings. All of the CPP applications were discussed, and it is of note that as it went through the subcommittee meetings and the planning commission, we received a positive recommendation along the way. This, as Mr. Pearson noted, the application is requesting to move the sewer and water line to incorporate the subject property. The designation would be changed to business uses instead of rural areas. The property is located adjacent to the infrastructure necessary to serve this property in the future, should a rezoning application come before the board. I guess furthermore, this is an opportunity, I believe, in general, when the county looks at future business growth, economic growth, and revenue-generating properties. It is at an intersection of two very busy roads. The rezoning application will carry the burden of demonstrating that all impacts are mitigated, and we feel very strongly that this is a positive development for the community and that this could be a very viable business land use. As to the historic question, we did meet with the historic, Ms. Hershey compare. the historic resource advisory board and most, Mr. Pearson's correct, there's a lot more historically significant real estate on the other side of 37. That's not to say that there isn't historic potential on the western side of 37. The owner and the applicant acknowledges that and typically what happens at the rezoning stage, the proffers are put in place in which the property could be investigated, signage could be put up. There are different mechanisms that we feel could be very appropriate considering the use of the site and what opportunities exist to not lose the historical significance for the record as the county continues to evolve and grow. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any questions? Mr. Frank? I do have one. You had mentioned this is an expansion of the sewer and water and at that point it wouldn't be the county eating that money or monetary value, it would be the developer. Correct. The burden of the rezoning application and this moving forward to eventually becoming a business use, it would have to go through the rezoning application. Any public extensions that would be transportation, sewer and water, any... Any infrastructure that would be necessary for this would have to get mitigated at the rezoning stage and if the Board is not, does not see it as being satisfactory, the Board has a choice to say that it could be business in the future but this application is not sufficient to mitigate the impacts. Gotcha. Thank you. One last concern is traffic. We're not at rezoning but while that is a very prime place, you know, getting, it's very congested right there. My only concern is when you exit, how much traffic that would be as those people are getting on 37. So, two points. It's already, the current comprehensive plan identifies this segment of that roadway as needing improvements. So, any rezoning application that would move forward would have to address that issue and furthermore, more than a line and an acknowledgement that there's heavy traffic, it's more than a line and an acknowledgement that there's heavy traffic. there right now, there's going to be extensive traffic impact analysis studies, recommendations on what kind of approvals, turn lanes. The property is located at an existing signal, which makes the access to the property very logical and, you know, again, I guess the traffic studies at the rezoning stage would have to address those concerns. Gotcha. Thank you. Any other questions? No, sir. Thank you very much. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Is there anyone still to speak? No, sir. Is there anyone present today who would like to speak on this proposal? Please come forward and give your name and magisterial district when you get here. No rush. Good evening. My name is Julie Shanna Brooke. I'm in the Gainsborough District. I live off of Apple Pie Ridge. So, just south of the Whitehall area. I'm just surprised to see this coming up at the end of the meeting this evening because I'm aware that there's a comprehensive land-use plan for that area around Sunnyside and over towards Route 50 and that that's something that we're working on this spring. So, I would just wonder why we're making decision right now on this piece of property that seems to me it would be very close to this other area that we are working on. I mean, it seems that the area that that you all are talking about and what we should do with that land use and in our decision on how we want more just decisions in one other way. I feel that area is not only right across from James High School and I see the cross country team and everyone running. They all have to go across that intersection by the light that we are talking about. So am really keen on just seeing a lot more development happen right now dedicated教 administrators have six students, But right now lots of development needs to be happening. right on that area, and I also see it as kind of a buffer of transition right there between what's happening towards the Sunnyside Plaza, which frankly has plenty of space we could use for better development, and that could be revenue generating. So I'm just surprised to see that we're talking about, like I believe there's a home right behind that, to see that we have that creep when a quarter of a mile to the west we have land that is poorly used at present. It's just a big parking lot. So I just wanted to give that observation. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak on this comprehensive plan amendment? None heard. We'll close the public comment portion. How would the board like to handle this? This is in my district. Gainesboro. Yes. I make a motion to go ahead and approve comprehensive plan amendment 03-23. Do we have a motion? Do we have a second? I'll second it. We have a motion and a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman, the woman that just spoke raised some interesting thoughts. So my question to all of you and perhaps to Mr. Frank would be that as this western comprehensive plan unfolds, would that then supersede any decisions that were made here? Or is this standalone irrespective of that? So how does that fit together? So as the county accepts applications by specific property owners to amend the comprehensive plan, if the board authorized this amendment, the comprehensive plan would be changed. And then if in that western Frederick study something else evolved that we thought we disagreed with what changed in the board, we could change it again but we're studying the area that encompasses this property as part of that so if the study similar to the Nilo of this area would override for example what potentially will occur tonight then that would occur so to address the woman's comments this would not be a set in stone rather would be a going forward but subject to the review of the Western plan use planning that's a that's a fair assessment the one thing I would add is since we had recent board action on the property my planners would not be paying any particular attention to changing or proposing any modifications to this land use if you were to approve this application as part of that study just by the nature of how how new it is and we would we wouldn't make assumptions that the board made necessarily the wrong decision and then try to propose a new plan for the property. This is like a five acre lot correct? Six. Okay thank you. And if I may a point of clarity also the the way the process has worked with this application was submitted in June and I believe it was sometime in the fall when the activities for the new area plan were started up by the Planning Department so this application actually predates that. And with respect to what this area would be planned for if it's not going to be rural areas the location of the property and just thinking of planning practices the business moniker or land use for this property makes complete sense. Thank you. Any more questions? Any more discussion? I had a few thoughts but I think I'll just go to a vote and take them up if we get to it in zoning or in the Western land use plan phase. So if we're ready to vote who did I start with the last time? I'll go. You want to go? Okay. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wow? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye in the motion. The motion passes. 13D the comprehensive plan amendment 04-23 the Sargent property. This is in Shawnee district although it changed hands with the redistricting. I believe it was Opec in before so you both know as well as do I. Wyatt? Thank you Mr. Chairman. This is another comprehensive plan amendment to extend the urban development area to encompass the properties and to modify the future land use projects. That should be the commission of this board. The 15th blue- Equity fighter attack in Opec,immt it. Missed? Yes. This one was followed by twitch and then it was moved to 522 into our middle school and retreat back to the 11th grade. This is in Buckwater North. SUуса trainer Yes. City Council? Ya I want to make a motion to stop the around sistema asset management. The bill does not include loan use to scale affordable awà depende unspr丈 amount of dalmatians to bring to SAR for project management. Yes� Senator Switzer? Right. I would have to repeat that. From Sen. Conearway? Ya. Senator Oduwarte. A? challenger where? In Greenville. Council. Is science 하고 mae? No. West on Tasker Road would take you into the further Stephen City subdivisions and eventually, if you follow Tasker all the way, to exit 310 at Kernstown. So these properties are outlined in blue. Again, there's a small portion of it that's on the north side of Tasker Road, but the vast majority of it is south of Tasker and east of White Oak and extends back into this area here. The proposed plan changes include extending the urban development area, changing the property future land use designation from mixed use industrial office to residential, from industrial to residential, and then retaining some industrial apologies. The asterisks as it relates to residential are to clarify. The staff memo made reference to a low density residential designation. The area plan for this portion of the county currently just refers to residential and designates four dwelling units per acre, more than the area plan for this portion of the county. And then just as a, for clarity's sake, that is for all intensive purposes, a low density residential designation, but it will go into the plan if approved as just residential, four dwelling units per acre. So here's the existing future land use plan for the property. The small portion north of Tasker is designated currently for park uses. As you head south, the front of the property is mixed use industrial office, and the back is included in a larger planned industrial area. Modifications would look as follows. Again, the urban development area is right across White Oak, so it's adjoining the existing urban development area. It'd be extended out along the property line to come about halfway back onto the lower half of the L shape and then cut down and follow a existing topographical feature and then come back to White Oak. And that portion of the property would be intended for that residential use, and they would retain the back half, as an industrial use for future development. Some of your relevant agency comment. Frederick Water thinks they're able to serve, but would need further information to evaluate whether they actually have plant capacity that could meet the needs of the development. Parks and Rec would like to see a small portion of the property north of Tasker remain designated for park uses, and that reminds me. Previously, when the application was submitted, the portion north of Tasker was designated for business uses. uses and the balance of this portion of the residential property was actually designated for high density residential following the Planning Commission recommendation of denial the applicant submitted a memorandum revising their application to retain this piece as a park designation and to downgrade the residential use from high density to the residential density that I mentioned previously VDOT did not identify any significant issues with the land use designation change but we need to further evaluate at the rezoning stage and the HRAB historic resources advisory board recommended further study of the existing Sherman Rogers sergeant house which is located on the property some of our conclusions would include that it is possible that a less intensive industrial and commercial use could be appropriate and meet the existing comprehensive plan and still mesh with the surrounding residential and institutional land uses namely the school to the south if it were to develop industrially it doesn't have to be necessarily a factory or something else that might not be compatible with adjoining residential land uses it's just worth noting more than anything if a residential use is considered we would advocate against an age restriction on those homes because the viability of being so close to a school and having a walkable connection to the adjoining school to avoid busing costs would be good planning practice and then it may be prudent to include text in this area plan it just references that fire and rescue is planning for a future fire station in this general area and recognition of that would be appropriate it's not currently in the draft text as proposed because there wasn't any amendment to the text offered by the applicant your CP PC recommended approval of this at their November 13th 2023 meeting Planning Commission recommended denial at their December 6 meeting as stated previously following a public hearing staff seeking action from the board on this request mr. chairman I'm happy to answer any questions and mr. Frank also represents this application and does have a figure that I'll put up after I answer any of your questions thank you questions for Wyatt what was what were the concerns of the Planning Commission in that what went into that December 6 denial of this I'll do my best to reiterate my memory of it but if mr. jewel will help and I'll be happy to jump I know namely one of the things that stood out was additional residential developments in that general area is being seen as concerning giving existing growth patterns that have occurred recently it's it's been a fast-growing area and has been for quite some time the concerns regarding it being high density were noted which has now been changed obviously and then echoed sentiments as same as the parks department provided that they wanted to retain a park there rather than see that as a business land use or what are fresh on on the top my mind did I catch all that John absolutely right and the traffic mitigation which obviously would have to be discussed later on but and it was a two-edged sword here because you're up next to a school so the idea of taking it from industrial residential absolutely makes sense do you want industrial right next to a school so that was the argument and the going from high density down that was the real one right there so a jump into clarify with Wyatt in and John the denial from the planning commission was with high density and business use on the northern portion I don't even know if I should ask this to any that feeling with the planning if it would change the planning commission's recommendation with the current vision , hearin absolutely thinking whatever I think Again, people are paying attention and they're really concerned, especially about high density residential versus the low density residential. Does it seem like the area should be residential? Yes, it does. Do you want industry right up against the school? No, you don't. But at the same time, it's got to be well thought out. And again, we're only talking the comprehensive plan part of this. Then you get into the pre-zoning part. So another clarification, I think I know the answer, but for maybe public benefit, when the new Aylor School was built, we didn't make a comprehensive change to the comprehensive plan. So it was plopped down in what was a mixed-use industrial area, and it was never envisioned. No one ever approved industrial next to the school. It went the other way around. The school came in later because it was available property, right? That's right. And Mrs. McHenry. I may remember the date that's slipping my mind now, but the last time this area plan was revisited, I think it was like 2014. And so the school happened in contrast to the area plan. And as you said, it was put into an area that really was never intended to accommodate that from a future land use planning perspective. And the area plan has not been then updated since the school was built. Staff would recommend, if you're going to adopt this amendment as it stands now, to go ahead and designate the school properties institution. And that's the current and foreseeable future land use for that property as well. And that's shown in the application materials. We made that change as well. Thank you. Any other questions for Wyatt? And did the board want to hear from the developer, or did the developer want to speak? Yes. If you'd like. Thank you very much. Again, David Frank with Pannoni Associates. And I am here this evening representing the Sargent family. I'm going to be talking about the application that we're working on. And I'll speak a little bit more on this particular application. It's a little bit different than the last one. It's situated more in an area of the county where it is a little bit more central in the core of what's already developed versus some of the outlying areas. And also, like the previous application, as it was going through the process with the various other applications, I think it's going to be a little bit more central in the core of what's already developed versus some of the outlying areas. And also, like the previous application, as it was going through the process with the various subcommittee meetings, this application from the start was receiving approvals through the process until it got to the Planning Commission. There was conversation about higher density versus lower density. There were people that I spoke with that went on both sides of this. Some people felt like the high density was too much residential. Other folks had the opinion that this isn't an area where you're around other existing residents. You're next to a school. Where in the county do we put high density residential? Maybe this makes a little sense. So there wasn't a lot of pressure on this project as it was going through the process. Again, the comprehensive plan process is a bit different than the rezoning process. As some of you more experienced supervisors know, this is typically well finished before the end of the year. It's carried over a little bit longer this time. And when we got to the Planning Commission, in a rezoning application, you have an opportunity to table your request. And you could make the changes that we've made that are before you right now. And obviously, I'm a proponent of the project, but I also feel that the Planning Commission, probably, the vote would have probably been a little bit different had what's been before you been presented at the Planning Commission. However, their recommendation is in. We have made the changes. We have made the changes that are before you. And I'd like to also circle back a little bit on comprehensive planning in part. It addresses land use and infrastructure, things like utilities and transportation and also housing. And the comprehensive plan is also a visioning document. It's looking at the horizon. And it's a guidance document for future investment for the development of the community that we live in. And it looks at issues, you know, like the transportation networks. And it tries to plan for logical and compatible uses adjacent other compatible uses. It also looks at things like is this an outlier property? Is it within a core area? Or is it a little bit, you know, outlying? You know, because infrastructure needs to be extended if it's outlying versus if it's already, you know, in a core area. So, it's a little bit of a plan. It's a little bit of a plan. It's a little bit of a plan for infrastructure already exists that could be more easily and more readily improved. So, this application has been already noted. It stems from organic changes that already happened. You know, 2014, there was a vision that a prior board had on how this county should develop. And White Oak Road was seen at that time as a distinct boundary, a very clear boundary between where we want our industrial commercial to start. And then we had the idea of, you know, a lot of the infrastructure that we have in the city. And where we want our residential to end. Because of the school, because of the investment and the land use that we now have, we're looking at this track now as what's compatible. Again, the comprehensive plan is a living document. And when we reviewed and analyzed this project, we looked at it from the current comprehensive plan. We looked at it from the... Existing land uses, which is the school. And we also stepped back and looked at it from a topographic perspective and infrastructure. And when we did this analysis, you know, what you see before you is something we felt was very appropriate. Initially, we thought that that six acre piece north of Tasker Road would be excellent for, you know, a dentist office or some sort of community medical, you know, doctor's office. But it's not. So, we have since gone through the process, and we have heard that there are other significant county infrastructure ideas and possibilities. And again, looking at the comprehensive plan as a living document, and appropriateness of land use, we feel where the blue and the yellow is in this picture, there's a significant topographic swale. There's a divide there. It's heavily wooded. The blue area, which is what we're talking about, is the area where the land is being used. The yellow area, which is representing industrial, is facing towards the industrial area. And it also would be accessed from an area that is currently industrial park. This plan would propose making industrial traffic move towards the industrial and be accessed from the industrial. And it would preserve the divide, the natural divide, topographic divide that exists on the ground. The other thing this project would do is... ...is place residential adjacent to a school, adjacent to other residential. All projects at the rezoning stage would be required to upgrade, you know, infrastructure, whether it's water, sewer, whether it's roadways, whether it's mitigating for school children. These are all things that happen at the rezoning stage. But as we looked at this property and we went through the process, we felt that because of the organic changes that had happened, this was worth another look. This was... This plan, as we put forward, we think makes a lot of sense. We've made the changes to maintain it as low-density residential. And we also recognize, just as we think it's appropriate for the residential next to the school, in the same vein, we felt it was also appropriate to maintain the park space and an opportunity for the county to invest in an area that, if you look at the plan, community resources, fire stations, park space, have no access at the rick entireanza. ...As you know apparently. You know... ...We've already did that, and this is what we were linhastone building on for a public thank you spirit, for sort of working help where they used to say, no, we Post State will reduce your Committee's and every New Year's thing until you can subscribe. We think that we overspent or as a large number were not. The SUN 48U Government already, basically started to come together in order to do a law system. That is separate angle for every... ... Toblerone Plantreath Passing area and building competitiveness. So, that's what our idea is here and loading ‑‑ address types of open chimneys. I just got lucky, and we're going to hope that everything's underustered. And the היathuarry, theная truck , the one. I have one on my lead, bond. All right. to being in front of you again in two weeks, and I'm happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you, any questions for Mr. Frank? No, sir. Any questions? Thank you very much. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Is there anyone who signed up to speak? No, sir. Is there anyone who would like to speak? Who's already moving toward the podium? Kevin Calden, Amishawnee District. If we're gonna, on the north side of that, can we put a Chick-fil-A there? I'd support that, so just to let you know. We don't need another dentist place. They got like five of them down on Warrior Drive. This is the first I've heard about it, and actually, I'm not anti-growth, so please don't feel that way. My only concern is that road is really a small country road. And I heard the comments earlier from the other families, and I would challenge this board to say, look, if we're growing the county and it's happening, we really got to expand the infrastructure first before we put in a thousand houses. The comments earlier about the other plan was exactly right. 277, people are hauling down that highway, and if all of a sudden you've got a lot of cars bumping off to the right or bumping to the left, it is gonna be a really high safety risk. If you're looking to put in neighborhoods down there, it needs to be four lanes. And if you look on this little itsy bitsy road, if you go south on that, it turns into a hairpin hauler. I mean, literally it's left, it's right, it's left, and it's down a hill. So while not opposing the growth, I think the county needs to take on the appropriate responsibilities to look to take that from making a little country road into a very safe, maybe almost a three lane highway, so people can turn in a safe environment, especially if you have a school nearby. So I think the bigger issue, and I'm hearing is growth is happening, it's gonna happen, but we're not growing 277. We're not growing that very small little country road that could be incredibly unsafe, and I'm sure we don't wanna put any of our residents in a safety region. So just my thought, and keep in mind about the Chick-fil-A. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak? Name and magister of district, please. My name is Rainey Hammond, and I believe that I was Opecan, but I've now been rezoned to Shawnee. I actually live on White Oak Road, and I'm directly, can you hear me? Yeah. I'm on the other side of Aylor, from where the development is. I second Chick-fil-A, my kids would love that. I'm also a public school teacher, so I have the same issues and the same concerns, that you have with our schools are already overloaded, and my youngest daughter goes to Sherando, she graduates this year, and Sherando is busting at the seams, just like all the rest of our high schools. So I know that Frederick County has had an issue with promising a new high school next year, two years, three years, four years. Here we are, we're still, 2024, my daughter is graduating, and we still don't have a high school. Along with that, on White Oak, as you were saying, it is hairpin turns, and I live directly off of White Oak. I can see White Oak from my living room, and I can see the motorcycles that are going past it on a road that's 45 miles an hour, supposed to be, and they're going down 70 plus. So I can only imagine what might happen if we add more. I'm a little concerned, well more than a little concerned, to be honest with you, that the same that you brought up, I feel like Frederick County has, continue to approve all of this residential building, and we are not supporting the infrastructure. The infrastructure must come first. There's no way that I can see that this is going to work as far as a residential. This is, if you're not familiar with the area, please go drive by there and look. This is all beautiful farmland. So if we take that, I understand that it seems to me that it was approved, and I may be wrong on this, approved, and done. Okay. We'll move on. industrial, and now we're looking at changing it to residential for this yellow. And I feel like that is, and I don't know if that was the applicant's intention all along was to have it residential, but it kind of feels like a little bit of a, you know, let's see what we can kind of squeak in here for Frederick County. And I would just ask that you ask for more clarification from the applicant before you approve this for high density versus low density. You know, if we're looking at high density, then we're looking at families coming in. Where are those kids going to go to school? Okay, so think about those issues with the road, with White Oak. Please go drive down White Oak. If you're not familiar with it, it is hairpin turns. And those school buses are doing their best that they can. I was concerned moving. I was actually, I lived across the road from where I am now in the camp, and I was concerned going down White Oak every day. When the new Aylor was built and how those buses would handle that road. I can only imagine if you add residential to that. So I would ask for clarification from the applicant before you approve. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak? Thank you. Name and magister a district first, please. Sure. Carl Bowman from the Shawnee District. So, I spoke at the planning meeting and Supervisor Jewell was when he was in charge of it there. My main concern was about the way that was zoned and I wanted to make sure that parkland stayed parkland. I actually am very well pleased of the fact that this has been revised so that is in the plan. I love my Chick-fil-A too, but I'd prefer a park. Part of the reason for that is because I actually live literally adjacent to it on the north side. I'm rural zoned. Pretty much all the properties around that are rural zoned. It doesn't really make sense to have it be business or housing, in my opinion, and I submitted signatures from all of my neighbors to that effect, actually, at the planning meeting saying the same thing. I do think that it makes sense to have residential there. I think changing it from high density to low density does make more sense. Obviously this is not a zoning meeting as has already been mentioned and I don't think that that we need to worry too much about the zoning there I do think that the the long-range idea which is what this is all about does make sense to actually have residential planned for there but not necessarily built like immediately we obviously have to go from there so but I just want to say that I like what I'm seeing about the the changes in the proposal and I think that it's a good proposal at this point thank you this chairman comic a couple comments yes I this is a public hearing doing we need to finish public hearing before we can move unless you have well no you can't ask a question of them so right is there anyone else who wants to speak on this okay again I I'm very pleased at the comments this evening all of them something I would like to again hone in on and through this process subcommittees planning commissioners even members on this board past members of the board that I've communicated with there are there are realizations as to this significant and the importance of the comprehensive plan and the visioning and the day-to-day business of Frederick County. And the concerns on traffic, first of all, the development that we're looking here is going to put less traffic on the roads than what's there today. Mr. Pearson also noted the viability at this point in time with the market on mixed-use office with the first application. The other thing I'd like to point out is this, from the Ayler School up to Tasker, is about 50% of the roadway from White Oak from 277 to Tasker Road. And the development of this project, and again with the sophistication and appreciation that the Board has at the rezoning stage, it is, I wholeheartedly believe that whatever transportation improvements are needed currently on White Oak Road will be addressed. With the rezoning application, that road will need to be widened. There will need to be turn lanes. There will need to be pedestrian access that goes from Tasker down to the school. All these are improvements that will be handled at the rezoning stage. And I'm happy to hear those comments, but I'd also like to point out that if we have infrastructure in the county, if we have areas in the county that are in a core area that are in need of infrastructure improvements, one way to get those improvements in place is good visioning, good comprehensive planning, good rezoning applications with proffers, and proper infrastructure improvements. And this development moving forward as presented is more viable and more likely to make those improvements sooner rather than later. Thank you. Thank you. I do think I made an error. We had the presentation from staff and from the developer and then the public hearing, public comment, it's been very useful back and forth, but technically on Robert's Rules of Order we're not supposed to be going back and forth. We can address these things later. So one last time I'll give citizens, since we're in the citizen comment portion of this public hearing, if you need to respond and then we'll cut it off. No more back and forth between, even though it's been all positive and useful, we've got to follow the rules here. Does anyone want to respond to that or speak or can we move on to the next phase? So you're a resident, right? Not part of the... No, I'm a resident. Okay. Carl Williams. I came up before and spoke. I was a little nervous then. I'm sorry. I live at 1679. Right down there at the bottom, basically bottom right corner, is my backyard. I can look across the woods at night and see the lights from the Home Depot distribution center. So this is kind of right in my backyard. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Within a half mile across the back of my property. Just a few comments. This is farmland. It has been farmland. I believe that, you know, it's zoned industrial now. Somehow it got industrial. Nobody's ever going to build industrial there. They don't want industrial there. There's no roads getting in and out there good. And, you know, it was always proposed. Somebody always thought that they were going to make big money on this property, and and mr. gentleman here said that it's gonna not have near as much traffic no no matter how many houses you put in you're gonna have more traffic I don't see how you cannot have more traffic when you bring more people into the county you know it doesn't make sense that you're gonna have less traffic than you have now when you add possibly in 122 acres you could add 300 houses there that's what they did across Marlboro Road on the other side of Route 11 you know that's what they're doing out on Route 11 now right down from the driving range in Steven city there's no way there's not gonna be more traffic you know you're looking at five six hundred more cars every household has everything on the ground and that might add up to 200 or 200 people per minute so you don't have that much traffic when you add possibly in 122 acres you could at least two cars so you know if you have 200 houses going in you look at four or five hundred cars where are they all going to go they got to go out on the road every day we all have two two income houses mostly you know so we all have two cars and that's not including our children uh you know teenagers who drive as well who would have vehicles so that's you know as the other lady came up here miss hammond came up here and said that that's farmland and and we're losing all that in the lower portion of our county right now and i know it's already been planned out in zone but you know nobody will ever i cannot see them putting an industrial stonewall industrial park there the next stonewall industrial park is going to go right there you know it's you know it's not close to you know it's not close to the highway it's back off and you know this is just a ruse to get more houses in there which you can look right across from white oak road and see there's 650 700 houses there and and that's what they're planning on putting there they don't they're planning on putting as many houses on there as they can get if they you know if they could get 650 houses there they'll get them if they can get 651 houses there they'll put them there that's what they want that's that's how they make money and and you know so and it's only a matter of time before that land in the blue in the back there'll be whoever's developing it will be trying to get that as residential they'll put road back to it and they'll come off moranto drive in the back and get that residential because there's more money in the residential than there is in the industrial because you can survive divide it thank you sir thank you is there anyone else who'd like to speak seeing no one i'll close the public comment portion of this public hearing um this is adjacent to two districts but this land is in shawnee currently sir how would you like to handle this um we i believe we already voted earlier to uh delay the vote to 24 that was already established i thought we had to go through that right now delay it okay perfect thank you so i think that completes um do we have a discussion period permissible if the board wants to or do we just move on and take that up certainly if you want to anyone want to have a discussion on this mr chairman my quick comment is so we've had the public hearing so i believe the public hearing is closed so we do not have to re-advertise the public hearing and that when two weeks from now the applicant can come back and if mr lero or anybody else wants to ask questions we can do that uh is that correct mr pearson okay thank you thank you mr chairman thank you so then we move on there's no planning commission business board liaison reports are there any hearing none uh citizen comments at this phase near the end of the meeting alice strickler people can speak on anything they like name and magisterial district please i'm alice strickler i think you all know me by now um except for the new ones and i am the my i am from page county actually i drove down here tonight to speak and i sit through this meeting and i will continue to do this until i get the answers i'm seeking my son ian at the age of 35 on july 5th died in the second day of training at the fire academy now everybody has mistaken my grief my anger about this event and everybody has felt like i've attacked frederick county fire rescue that is not true i hold them accountable i want answers i know that the osha report is done and in your attorney's hands i have not received it yet although we have foiled it i know that there has been a citation issued i do not agree with the citation i do not think it was strong enough and i will tell you that my son did have an enlarged heart i have read his autopsy i have watched every piece of video that exists as you can see i have read every piece of video that exists you have as well because i provided them for your for your private meeting those were the hardest videos of my life and i go to sleep every night seeing my son crawling on his knees when his heart rate was 204 beats per minute and no one intervened those are the answers i want do i hold the chief responsible for that yes because he's the head of the fire division he did not realize that they were exercising on the hottest day of the year it should have been stopped the six paramedics that were there were to blame but he was not the one because he was not the one who would have been able to help us all they were not the ones who would have been able to help us all so i have decided that i will stand here and say this i will stand here and say this i will stand here and say this until i'm 90 years old they'll be wheeling me through the door some of you will be gone i'm sure i may be gone before some of you but i will keep coming and saying the same thing those six men were derelict in their duties they are sworn to protect and they did not they did not save my could have been heroes that day, but instead they're not. My son died. He went to work at 6 30 that morning, and by 9 53, he was gone. Now, I'm not allowed to ask you questions, but I'm going to say, raise your hand if you have an adult child, or if you have a child. Raise your hand if you sit on this board. I know you do. I see you shaking your heads. You would do the exact same thing that I'm doing. You would demand accountability, change, and you would want the answers that I'm seeking. I want you tonight to go home and look at your children, or text your children, and tell them that you love them. I can't do that. Mine's in an urn that sits on my TV stand. I want you to think about that every time that you see me sitting in this front row, because that's why I'm here. I'm his last advocate. And I will continue. I'll be here every meeting. You can count on seeing me until I get the answers I want. Thank you. Della DeHaven. She informed us she had to leave early. Ryan Taylor. He's also left. Dana Brunn. He's gone. And Shelly Lee. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You've done a wonderful job your first meeting. Congratulations. I'm glad to see you doing the good work of Frederick County. I'd like to address two comments that were made this evening. The first one is in civility. I've noticed that the folks on the left-hand side of the aisle are liberal friends tend to imply that the other side is doing what they are indeed doing. This evening, I heard that I've been less than civil in many past conversations. Over the last five months, I've heard over 100 comments from folks, from the representative who represents me, that have been far less than civil directed towards me, both when I was in public life and private life. Some of those texted me after the comments were made earlier this evening and wanted to come and share those comments publicly, and I ask that that not be done in the form of civility because I wanted to have a formal, civil meeting this evening. I want you to know, Mr. Jewell, I have forgiven you. There are no hard feelings. The comments have hurt deeply. Some of them have been very false, but I have forgiven you. If I've done anything to cause you harm or hurt, I ask that you would forgive me as well. To you, Supervisor Dunn, last evening you called me. I didn't call you. You went on for about four and a half minutes about Ms. Ludwig and your thoughts regarding her and comments regarding many other people. I thought about coming up here and letting folks hear part of that conversation from last night. Yes, I do record a lot of things. There is an apology owed to Ms. Ludwig. I understand that there's hard feelings. There's also an opportunity and a time for forgiveness and civility. I said it at the time when the comments were made about a year ago, and I'll say them again. We don't always agree with one another. We're not always going to agree with one another. But there is a time for forgiveness, and there is a time for civility. So I will extend the same to you, Supervisor Dunn. If I've ever done anything to you that causes hardship between us, I hope that you will forgive me as I have forgiven you. And I pray that you will do the same to Chairman Ludwig and his family, because they have truly been through hell through some of the comments that have been made. Thank you. Robert Kennelly, Bat Creek District. When the conversation happened about the SSDAC appointmentship, it was stated that that was advertised. I don't know exactly how that works, but so I checked the minutes. It hadn't been mentioned in any other board meeting, not for the last two months. And I was at the last SSDAC meeting. They only happen every three months, but I was at the last one. Unless I am really confused, the person who's term was up, he was at that meeting. So really, we didn't have the opportunity to know that. And that's a fact. The other thing I want to do to just talk about briefly is something that I've noticed. One day I was in the zoning department, and when I go in there as somebody that, and I'm going to send something to all of you at some point, but when I go in there as a citizen whose rights are being trampled, I'm not treated very well. But I was in there one time looking at different paperwork, and somebody walked in, I don't know if it was a developer or what, but he walked in, how are you doing today, sir? How can we help you? Totally different situation. We look at some of these different plan amendments. Some people, they might not even be citizens, they're just developers trying to make money. But planning, oh, they'll redo the comprehensive plan for them. But when it comes to my property, they'll tell me, you can have all the horses, you can have all the horses you want, but you cannot have one chicken to lay eggs to feed your children. See, they'll change the whole thing for some people. But for a citizen, oh, you can't do that. Who are you? Peasant. So I just hope that y'all understand that for a citizen, that's how I feel. I see all the rules can change if you got some money. You want to feed your kids? Get on. Thank y'all. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak? Thank you for staying so late. I know this has been a long day for a lot of us. I do want to share, so I will tell you, and you've probably all heard me, I have been the guy, like, do not build a fourth high school. Do not increase my taxes. Oh my gosh, this will be a huge and wasteful amount of money. I read an article in the Winchester Star about a month ago, and I was looking at it, and I was like, oh, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. I was looking at the numbers, and I thought, you know, I'm wrong. There are a lot of people coming to this county. Now, we don't know how many families versus how many retirees, but there are people coming to this county, and that's why I said earlier, I think we need to really have a plan to make our roads safer, or we will be Fairfax. And so I would ask the board to consider that as we talk about expanding new homes, we need to have the roads right. We need to have walkways. Or it will become very dangerous for us and for our children. But the one thing I would ask this board to do that I would implore you to do is when you visit with this school board, I would ask you to say, show us the plan for the fourth high school. And I bet they'll have it, and they'll pull it out, and they'll go, here it is. And then say, show me the plans. Instead of building a fourth high school, expand Millbrook and expand Sherando. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. of high schoolers, but we don't have as many middle schoolers becoming high schoolers, and we don't have as many elementary kids becoming middle schoolers who will become high schoolers. So we're going to spend $200 million on a huge high school, and then there'll be less students there. That is worrisome to me. Now, once again, I've changed my mind. We are having growth. We have to see how many students are part of that, but we are having growth. But I really think that we are missing an opportunity to spend $75 million to grow our infrastructure just because we're so passionate about spending $200 million to build a high school, which will double the school debt. So please, I know we got to move forward. I got it. But let's seriously think about looking at all the options and make sure they just weren't written off right from the get-go. Thank you so much, and thank you for, and congratulations, everyone. Thank you for serving on this board. Thank you for all the time and service. Even though we don't say it enough, we appreciate it. So thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Hi, Brian Nury, resident of the Opecan District. In response to the last speaker, I want to say that Frederick County Public Schools has already provided all those numbers in charts and in maps. Dr. Hummer, over the past couple of months at all three of the high schools, has clearly illustrated the need for the high schools. Because if we just keep expanding the three high schools that we have, we're going to hit a wall in about five to seven years. Building a new high school puts us farther out within about, I think he said 15 to 20 years. I don't have the numbers here because I wasn't prepared for this. However, Frederick County Public Schools is prepared for this. There's links on their website that are available. It's almost right on the front, I believe, for their comprehensive plan. So yes, those numbers are there. They have been double, triple worked, and they're in bright colors, and in maps to show how the need for our fourth high school. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Hearing none, public citizen comment is closed. Board of Supervisors comments, are there any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. Mrs. Slaughter, congratulations. Thank you. Are there any other supervisor comments? Hearing none, Vice Chairman Slaughter. I move we adjourn. Do we have a second? Second. All in favor say aye. Aye. We adjourn. Thank you.
