Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2024-09-18
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=238
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you it's five o'clock I should call this meeting to order. Planning Commission meets tonight, right? Yeah, so we only have until about 630. The purpose of this meeting is to take up budget considerations with regard to, I believe, in particular stimulated by the FCPS CIP request but in my mind it's kind of larger than that it's a great opportunity for a budget season to get an idea where we stand and what our projections are this is of course a very large commitment by the county and we need to know that not just next year but through multiple years that we have a plan we won't put ourselves in a bind whatever direction we choose so with that mr. Balhoffer where are you going to present to begin I'm going to present the information and financial information I'm gonna try to make it as quite as boring as it really is so I'm gonna do my best trust me I've been looking at this for weeks and weeks on the last person that wants to see this tonight the goal is to provide information build questions have discussion but there is no need for action at this time you know outstanding is the resolution from the schools which I assume would be brought back to a future meeting for the Board of Supervisors a lot of this information you may be familiar with because most of it comes from the budget books and the capper or so now it's it's called the annual comprehensive financial reports we know a lot we're no longer allowed to call it a capper this first slide just shows you this informational current rates for all of our taxes I sent this out to everybody ahead of time so you've business this year the deserves just back down to the fiscal compañero these are budget of revenues for our primary sources of revenue for this year this is right out of the budget book this shows you our real property taxes over time the reason to 2025 is that we have a line to ourcakas have to grant closequa receiving increases and the enemy took it and he's a tot he gave it out to the eminentозi let me just add this is still prop practise we don't know the exact number of times that this is Carnegie law they signed this this is a stationary we're not broadcasters in this is orange is because that's a budgeted number all the other numbers are actual numbers and they come from our audited financial statements the act for ask questions anytime you want to ask questions going through this or at the end either works these are the personal property taxes once again the orange is the budgeted picture numbers from our current year budget book I broke the numbers out this way because it was asked of me you know how much of that is a machinery and tools and how much is personal property you can see the general average is machinery and tools makes up about 12% of your personal property breakout obviously the cars in there are both business and personal owned cars on the out years beyond what we're talking about here what what time of the year what month of the year do we start getting projections on further do we get that from the Commissioner of Revenue's office at some point yes and my understanding is this year and Anne may correct me our goal is to start a little sooner with those I think we scheduled a meeting is it in December and that's the earliest we can get the information that we can get the information that we can get the information that we can get so we're gonna start the budget probably a little earlier with revenue projections from the Commissioner of Revenue how far out does that go just one year she primary goes one year and it gets trickier you know because there can always be changes you could roll back taxes changes but you can go out more years with trend analysis thank you can I ask a couple questions or see if I understand some of the assessments correctly you could go back one so like maybe one more I guess one more so for real property taxes in 2021 that assessment we're not over 20% on homes and yet the income in 2021 and 20 22 doesn't go up even through 23 by 20% so that was a question I had asked if we There's always more homes not less so I would go up even without an assessment change but if If we don't get a revenue we think we're getting we you know that colors our thoughts about the future So you were looking into that right? I just want to let the rest of the board know I'd ask that question Yes, and I'm a we're gonna do some research on that and any other question some questions tonight We may be able to answer and other questions We may have to go back to the drawing board and get your answers that may take a little research in 23 The assessments went up by another 20% However, that's when we lower the real property tax rate. So that's why that That we wouldn't expect to see a big jump in revenue and what I'll probably do is probably the best way to handle it is I'll get go ahead and put together a little report where I'll show the tax rates the rollbacks and that Information and try and tie the two together and then send it out to everybody seems like finance And the Commissioner of the Revenue gave us Good advice when we rolled the tax rate back we see revenue didn't go down Right went up slightly which is what we were hoping for that only new homes Would impact us with new revenue that people's taxes wouldn't go up This looks like we were pretty close to that I think part of the issues also is you know, we're on a fiscal year I think the taxes sometimes going to calendar year so you cross time frames, but I'll get all that analysis And I thought he saw in personal property or a car is a big bubble I think that's the one thing that's important to note is that the tax rate is going to go down I think that's the one thing that's important to note is that the tax rate is going to go down Maybe the next no Well now I'm not sure I see it I thought I saw it looking at the charts But there was a bubble in assessments and then they come down in 2024 But I presume that's the recovery and assessed value for cars Well, I would assume so I think the 23 24 is the year that they did the rebate and the rollback and that's why it looks like it's pretty close Okay, and then we begin the gradual incline again Yes This is the business license tax obviously once again the orange is the budgeted number The mills and lodging tax and I was one of the questions asked was why this had gone up so much in so many years And I think what you've seen recently is we've had more people Using the lodging but you also when the when you have inflation That's tax rate is multiplied times and inflated numbers. So that will also increase your revenues So my assumption is is those increases based on those two facts? And more businesses that are doing to provide that service And this is the sales tax overtime Orange once again is a budgeted number 2025 inflation there same thing exactly the same On this one the sales tax is multiplied times inflated numbers This is just to show you the makeup of our revenues each year the primary components of our revenues and obviously our Personal property tax and our real property tax are the largest components and sales tax is the third largest component of our revenues One is the budget. This following graph actually comes right from this graph. What this is showing you, each year the excess of revenues over expenses or if you don't have a surplus, it will show you how much below it is. As you can see, in 2018 and 2023, the number was below. I'm not sure what caused it. I'm going to look into that. My assumption is throughout the year, the Board may have done some extra capital expenditures or expenses. I will figure out what that is. The key part of this is this number right here. When you start looking at where does our fund balance come from, which the capital fund is a component of the fund balance, it is the fact that your revenues have exceeded expenses over year, each year. You can see over 11 years. The total of that was $62 million. From 2014 to 2024, our revenues exceeded expenses by $62 million. Could another factor be if we budget a project in one year, but it doesn't get built that year, instead it gets built a year later, we'll have unusually high expenses that second year and the rollover money doesn't count as revenue, right? So that money that rolls forward, but it does count as an expense? It goes into revenue too. It does? Yeah, because when they appropriate it, they'll appropriate revenue and expenditure. Reappropriate. 2023, and this is just a guess, I haven't looked into it, that's the year they did the rollback on the personal property, so it may have been that, because the estimate would have been off, but I'm not sure about that. In 2018, I don't remember, was that the beginning of the COVID year or was that 2019? I'm not sure. 2019. 19, yeah. 19. 2019, that was a while back. And this is a number I've talked to a lot of you all about and I've been working on this and I actually worked with Sharon this afternoon on this number. And it's complicated when you read our audited financials budget in trying to determine this number. In 2023, you see up there unassigned fund balance. So in that year, that is the money in your fund balance that's not committed, restricted, that you can spend on whatever you want. Part of that money, that $66 million, is your reserve, which you have by policy set aside of 17% of your revenues. So I calculated that out. So when you calculate that out, that's about $40,700,000. Anything over 20% of your revenue. 20% of your budgeted revenues you would put into your capital fund. So if you multiply that number out and subtract it out, that $66 million, about $19 million that year would have been rolled over into a capital fund. And that leaves you what I call the no man's land is that extra 3% because I think, and I talked to Sharon, she believes at some point in time they thought they wanted to leave that there because that gives you a little bit of fund balance that you can spend on what you want to spend. So that's the $66 million. That number for that year is in the neighborhood of $7 million. But that's how you break out that number there. What happens, and I don't want to go into too much accounting detail, it's pretty boring. When they cut out the approximate $19 million for the capital fund, it actually gets moved over into our capital projects fund. So the portion in there you see is the amount in the unassigned fund balance. So that's the $6 million. That's the $6 million. That's the $7 million. Now, I don't know if you're familiar with that number. It's not a huge number. It's a little bit of a $16 million. That's the $16 million. But it's $16 million. It's a little bit higher than the $6 million. So when you say that 3%, the previous board decided to leave that to spend it on what they want. I don't want to leave any button in the public with the impression that it's extra money. If you go look at the budget chart you had with expenses and revenues, the budget chart was $16 million. the budgeted versus revenues. There's always expenses that come up every year that we have to make supplemental appropriations for. Right, and a board could also use it if in a year they're budgeting and they have a shortfall, but they have a project that's very important. They could say, well, we're going to take that $6 million that we have that's in the unassigned, that's neither capital fund or reserves and spending on that project. So it gives you those options. It gives you more options in your budgeting. It does make it a little confusing, though. It makes it very confusing trying to figure it out. But it's actually a good thing it's there because it's extra funds you have available. And I'm very unfortunate because I don't have to figure it out. Cheryl figures it out. So this is the real number that matters. This is the capital fund. And what I've done here, if you were to actually graph this out, actually it'd be a bunch of lines up and down, up and down. So I just tried to show the growth of this fund over time. And I'm going to give the history of the best I've heard it because I wasn't here. In 2017, I believe the board said, we wanted to set aside some money so we could do capital projects. And so they initially established, you know, $1 million. I call it seed money to start this fund. Over time, it has grown. And at this time, if you look at that fund, it's 42. And this is actually, Cheryl calculated, this is the number that's going to be in there for this year, be transferred over come 9-25. So it hadn't even been transferred yet. So it's 42,300,000. Now, however, you have to subtract out for that your commitments for the fire station and the fire equipment. So you take the 42.3 and subtract out the 9.6 million. That leaves you available in your capital fund $32.6 million. When they do the accounting for this, they have a fund they call the Fund 83, which is the capital fund. By accounting standards, it's not a real fund. It's really a quasi fund because it's actually part of the capital projects fund. But that's how they track in a subsidiary ledger, the funds available in your capital fund. I went through that subsidiary ledger, And what I did is I pulled out major changes where you saw monies transferred. The initial blue spot up there is that $1 million seed money. In July 2017, there was a budget in $4.3 million. In July of 2019, there was a net budget of $3 million that went into that. There was more to that transaction, but it netted to $3. When you go to the subsidiary ledger, then you start to see those yearly transfers based on that formula. October 19, $4.5 million. As you see year by year by year, that amount has grown. I think you see that 10-26-22, that was $19 million. In November 23, $15 million. And the up. Up. Upcoming amount we're expecting to be $15.8 million into the capital fund. The idea is to give you an idea of the amounts we transfer over to this fund each year. So not all of these represent the roll over of funds from one fiscal year to the other, right? The first ones were budgeted actions. I'm going to verify that. It may have been the terminology they used in the subsidiary ledger. But in the subsidiary ledger, the message by it said budgeted. Whereas in all the other transactions, it said transferred. So I'm not certain. Either way, it ends up being the same result when you do it. And this is the chart of projections. And that's actually the years are wrong. That should be fiscal year 25, 26, 27, 28, and 29. I will correct that and send it out to you. OK. OK. Thanks. Thank you. What I put on this chart is, if you go for this year, actually, I'm going to, it's pretty confusing. The main gist from this chart is, from on there is, I put the amount of money in the balance and three expenses for each year. And of those three expenses out of there, because we've done this in the previous year, is we subtracted out $5.5 million for ordinary capital county, ordinary capital, and the county would be things such as your police cars each year. It could be HVAC systems for building or what you would call ordinary capital expenditures. Including after that fall, that is your $7 million commitment that you put into your transportation fund each year for transportation projects. I put in $5 million a year for ordinary capital for the schools. If you remember back when they were doing the budget, they had outstanding of regular building maintenance type projects of about $20 million. Obviously, that'll change year by year. I just put this number in here based on that of $5 million that would go towards your ordinary capital for the school projects. I put in the rollover number of $12 million in there. I based this number just looking at this. If you were to average just the numbers, from 2020, that $12 million by average would probably be closer to $16 to $16.5 million in that rollover. I put in $12 million. I come from an accounting background. I'm very conservative. I always want to make sure I underestimate that number. What they say when you invest is that previous events are no way indicative of what's going to happen in the future. Part of that funding that goes in there each year and why it increases is also the interest earnings you have in the bank on this money. At this point, the question was asked, what are our interest earnings and what's our cost of borrowing? So I got that information. And our cost of borrowing now is approximately 4.5%. Obviously, that could change at any time through the state. Our return on investments, I'll call it interest earnings for 2024, was 5.4%. That was an average for the year. Our budgeted amount for 2025 was 4.5%. However, I know the Fed dropped the rate today. That number will change. We just don't know what it's going to be. And obviously, the rate for borrowing will change. I think what we have seen over the near time is that the return on investments has been approximately the same as your borrowing costs. And those numbers came today from the Treasury. So being conservative is good for making sure you are careful about the future. But the only drawback is if it really is the average of the last five years that our rollovers are going to be more like $17 or $18 million, then being conservative, it makes it look like this fund is going to be depleted in the next five years. And if the rollovers continue to be what they have been, that wouldn't be the case. And it makes it look like we're more strapped than we are, as far as taking on new projects. So I just want to say I'm not sure the $12 million should take that. DAVID BURRAGE. Repeat that again, Mike, what you said about the 16. MIKE PATTERSON. I thought just the opposite. If the rollover is $12 million, but what you averaged was $16 million. DAVID BURRAGE. Then we will not deplete for years to come. MIKE PATTERSON. Well, the real question is, what is the number you put in there? So when I look at that, I'm very conservative. I'm not going to take any chances. I'm not going to have anyone beat me up later and say, Mike, you said we're going to be in this shape. So it's typical of us accountants being very conservative. So if you go back and average, how do you average this? If you start in 2017, total them all up and divide, that number is a little bit lower. DAVID BURRAGE. If you base this average on the current history, that number would be higher. And each person, when you do a projection, everyone has a methodology for doing so. And I'm using the I'm going to be careful and scared methodology of $12 million. It doesn't mean it's right or wrong. It was just the methodology I used. And obviously, the 5.5, the 7, and the 5 are based on recent events when we looked at our budget for the county transportation and the schools building maintenance, ordinary capital. GENE MCKOWN. Go back again to the 16. And where did you come up with that number? You said that's a high number, and you don't want to go there. You want to stay low at 12. How are you computing the 16? DAVID BURRAGE. If you were to add up, take a year from 2020 to 13, 26, 19, 15, and 15, and divide it by 5, that's probably where you get the 16. So it really depends on the range you picked to calculate the number. But I would think that the fund balance that we had during the COVID years, we also had resources that came to the county that pulled over. But it would seem to me that the 23 and the 24 numbers at 15 million seemed fairly consistent. So we may be. DAVID BURRAGE. We could use that number. And then the only other question I had about this capital fund, it just stuck out, is on transportation this year, we budgeted 3.2, right? GENE MCKOWN. We did. So the 7 million, we actually would have an increase of the difference of those two. DAVID BURRAGE. And we did it that year because we had additional expenses in there to compensate. There was some debt service for the schools. And school, I forget what they were, but there were other items this year we used the capital fund for. GENE MCKOWN. We understood we had two total costs. And there was a gap because we had more paid within the hoursaci their budget. So we took the fact that they were Querétaro. We included this part of our budget in there. And then what we didn't, because they did not fund us. GENE MCKOWN. So we still had a 20% more. So the 10%. to jump around especially if we have a recession so I don't want to be overly confident but if you just take two data points which is dangerous the last two years as the county grows the budget grows and the spending grows we were 15 for than 15 8 that's where I thought maybe 16 million was a nice figure to use as a conservative guess of where we might be but again there's a lot of economic thing everybody's guessing I mean we could be below 12 next year if there's a recession a lot of it is because of vacancies we hope that the largest component of that what we see when you look at the budget is vacancies you're seeing where your revenues exceeded your expenditures and you're also seeing because of the interest rate on investments with some of the other things that we're seeing is that the budget is going to go up and we're going to see if we can get a lot of revenue out of it and we're going to see if we can get a lot of revenue out of it and we're going to change these stubble paths here and what it's like where our顧 rent a whole lot less but if we can't offer that we wonderfully ec properties in the sub06 we do want investment at a chronic rate and a national return but, raised from 32 percent is a lot of승 we may long hold in the 2007 extra asset as we can go up and and go to Brazil so course we had nervousоду the for guess to lose wrap up our approval every report엉 which is 26 on the board. You have $17 million that's coming out of the capital fund. You're expecting to get $12 million in rollover balance. A person could make the argument, build that $12 million of rollover balance into the budget itself. Now you're basically only pulling out $5 million out of the capital fund, correct? You could modify your whole budgeting, so you're actually capturing up front and out the tail end. If you budget it, for instance, you decided you will budget it if some certain percentage of positions aren't filled. So that's all I wanted to make a point of. But if you, to counter your counterpoint, just as a discussion, if you build it into the budget and you left all numbers the same, you'd be budgeting a deficit, expecting to make that up with the rollover. It's the same thing here, except it comes out of the capital fund. So it tells us, it gives us a limit on how much over we should even consider. Because we know what our capital reserve is. And my only concern about this is, three months ago that dollar amount was $9 million. Now it's going to $12 million. So my comment to anybody would be, if you really think your numbers are good, build them into the front end of the budget. Because this is a subjective item that I'm just uncomfortable with, that's all. You might be uncomfortable with it in the budget, if you're budgeting deficit, but there's no win. I mean, either way, we know that we have a lot of unfilled positions. And we always will, because there's high attrition. And in some of our departments. And there always will be those jobs. Yeah, there's a tough labor market. Those numbers now are greater than they've been in the past. You hope at some point in time you fill more of those. There's always going to be unfilled positions. So they'll always be there. The question is, what's the magnitude of the dollars from those unfilled positions? And I did, although it's not related to this, if you remember always during the budget, because we pay the jail a separate loan. We pay the lump sum. That amount's been reduced the last few years because of their unfilled positions over there, which has helped us balance the budget. There's no need to actually try and read this in all the detail, because I'm going to show it in the graph. This was the last debt service information that came from the schools. And this is, the way they did this was to borrow the money for all three projects, plus use. I think actually they used $6.9 million. Available from Proppers also for the Jordan Springs. This picture shows you our debt service as it is without adding any debt to give you an idea of what's happened. 2025, it's $23 million and it gets paid off about 2045. So that's the current debt service. This is the debt service payments based on doing the three projects and using the $6.9 million for Proppers. And you can see the high, I put in the high points there to show you where the difference is in 2027. It's almost, it's $12 million more than what you're paying now. And when you get up to 2030, it's significantly more. 10 million more, actually it's 2 million in 2027. The idea of this graph is to just show you the magnitude or the increase in dollars you need if you do the projects. And the timing of those dollars. Just a comment on that chart. Those are real dollars. Not necessarily, they're not percentages of, percentages of the total budget. No, those are real dollars and that's calculated debt service payments. Obviously, whenever the money's borrowed, the timing of the money, these numbers change a little bit. But by magnitude, they don't change much. So if they were to calculate in the day, they could be different. So if we had a chart that showed the debt service for that year as a, as a percentage of the county budget for that year, it would be probably less of a, a slope going upwards. Yes, I'd have to calculate that, but that could be done. I just put some items in there for consideration is things you don't know. The unknown is we don't know the actual construction costs for the new high school. If it is built, changes in the economy. Obviously, that can change anything in any of your charts. The operating costs from the new high school. My understanding is the operating costs for a high school when it's fully run is 10 million or in that neighborhood. And of course, the state pays a portion and the county pays a portion. I've used when I look at these numbers just to make it easy. $5 million. Obviously, that number changes if you open up first and there's less people there and you transfer staff over. It won't be, you know, this county share wouldn't be 5 million, but that is a number out there. You have to look at is the operating costs. These are all the projects that have from the last presentation. I believe it was July 17th. You've all had time to look at these. And there's the high end and the low end option, which you'll see in my summaries. The three projects with the brackets are the projects that are going to be built. The ones that are under consideration for this year's budget process. Good question. Yes. On this chart, there's a fourth high school. There's also a Millbrook High School expansion at the bottom. Assuming, keyword assuming, is the fourth high school is built, does that mean they would also want the Millbrook High School expansion? Or does this say if you do the fourth high school across X, if you do the Millbrook expansion across Y? It's my understanding these are on top of building the fourth high school. And that's why, because if you look at this, it includes them. So these are all the items they requested in both their five and ten year plan. Okay. We can talk about that when we get into the discussion. So I took these numbers and I put them in two columns. Obviously, the one on the left is either option one or the most expensive estimate. And the column on the right is the cost. And the column on the right is the cheaper version. So if you look at the, I think these were the five years. I subtracted out the three projects under consideration for this year. So the cost for these five projects is $165 million, the high end, $140 million low end. And you add the other projects, these were on the ten year list. It goes from $390 million to $333 million. If you total those, it's $5 million. Okay. So that's the $550 million and the $470 million of the two columns. These are other items out there. These aren't being proposed or such, but items that have been discussed or they're out there that at some point in time will have to be dealt with. One is the county administration. As you know, with the building here and such, there is a shortage of space. And we're looking at different ways to accommodate that. In the past, when they bought Sunnyside, one of the ideas was to build a county administration out at Sunnyside. And it was also considered at that point you do a combined administration for both the school and the county. So that's why I put the school in there because that idea has been discussed in the past. The question on the courthouse, at some point in time, legally, the city and the county may have to build a new courthouse. Or if you would abandon this space and redevelop it with a courthouse, some way to accommodate their space needs. We're in the process of going forward with Station 22. The next station, this is more in the north part of the county, is Station 23. That's on the plan for the county. Obviously, this is with land and equipment is $10 or $12 million in that neighborhood. I put one item from recreation. I met with the recreation department and asked them from a department standpoint, which is the most important project you think your department and the county needs? And they said number one, what they need more than anything is a recreation center. So I put a recreation center on this list. What changed that from last year to now? They weren't even talking about a recreation center last year. They said they didn't need one. I'm not sure. I know what I did is I brought in all the senior people and we sat down at my table. And maybe it was disagreements with the board or such. So I just asked all the staff. I said, you all do this every day. You're in recreation. What is it they need the most in the county? And we sat and talked. When I was on rec, we talked about it. Yeah. Then they, whatever reason, I wasn't there. Chuck took me off. So I wasn't hearing what was going on. But all of a sudden, it was a dead issue and nobody wanted to talk about it. Now it's the most important issue in the world. I don't understand that. I'm not sure why. I'd like clarification on that. I will see what happened with that. Okay. So, did they give any details like where they would want to put it? Did they think? No, it's no details on where. Obviously, with a recreation center, if you're building one, you want it centrally located or at least you want it to be accessible to the most citizens in the county. So centrally located or by a road, which accommodates a lot of people. So those are the kind of factors you would look in on location. They're looking like for a gymnasium, all those different things that go into it. It's not office. It's drop Gracias, ma'am. Any last questions? Oh, good question. And then Reds, my question went across to you. Who in the area can purchase a gymnasium in the electric union area? Yeah. D mechanical square. It sort of looks like a trend. There are no Action, see, you let a Your la pre fortune. tender loving care is that the one in current use or at least a year to change our use yes I didn't know they were ceasing operations I've had kids use that but that's the type of facility it has gyms large office rooms a kitchen and such for a full recreation center in my opinion if they were looking at recreation center if you also need office space you'd probably want to look at all your needs and determine because you also probably want classrooms and such but that's for a future date sometime so I always thought that was a little bit difficult if they put it where most density population is and it's not going to be far from Jim Barnett's city center right so it's gonna be a long way from some parts of our County you know wherever you put it is the foreign I've never understood all this bits and pieces of space that Parks and Rec has in community recreation centers you know some of it is in schools and maybe that could be given back you know could be useful space for schools wherever those pieces are and retain them wherever you don't have the rec center you know if if the far western end of the county is pretty far from the city and county rec centers we'd want to keep arts and rec weight rooms and such out there but maybe we wouldn't need it anymore close to where the new facility would be yeah that'd have to be a lot of thought planning and to looking into that all those things are obviously all right the fun stuff well none of this financial stuff what's up sorry these are potential tax revenues I know you're familiar with this real property one penny brings in 1.5 million personal property 143,000 mills tax for one penny it's 1.8 million the most you could increase it to is up to six cents it's at four now so if you wanted to increase it you could increase it two pennies we do not have a cigarette tax now I think by state law you can go up to sixty cents I use fifty cents because that's the rate the city uses and I was able to extrapolate from their numbers and their revenue based on fifty cents if we had a fifty cent cigarette tax it would raise two million I think that's very conservative it'd probably be closer to 2.3 million the cigarette tax is somewhat cumbersome puts a lot of work on the Commissioner of Revenue so there would be some operating costs you have to do all these stamps and such I don't know all the details but I would guess if you did 50 cents you'd probably net close to two million dollars but if it's take further than that you'd probably have to pay a little bit more for the research does that include like vape shops and stuff I don't know that might be a lot more there's a lot of that I don't know whether they get the Virginia tax on them I'm not sure interesting thought yeah potential revenue at one point we had discussed payment in lieu of taxes because of the way the structures of some of our organization that doesn't work out very well and also because of the fact if indeed you were to decide you were going to take any money from the enterprise fund and the landfill or such there's an easier way to do it if you decided that that that was like the board wanted to do what the county wanted to do it'd be easier due to a rebate so accomplish the same mission with less legalities I think today as we saw we had the landfill presentation if you did rebates because of the ownership with a Clark County and Winchester they would have to probably receive an equal amount based on population you know proportionate share tipping fees is somewhere along the similar line was to lower tipping fees so it would reduce the county's cost for when we pick up trash at the convenience sites and take it to the dump of course that has a negative impact on the landfill impact fees has been discussed quite a bit that's a it would require obviously the state to take some action or I know the city has in the committee now they're looking at street impact fees the school sales tax I do know that from the day there were some discussions and that it looks that it's likely that that it will be brought up again to the legislature next year but who knows what happens when it's brought up there but my understanding is it will be brought back to the legislature with the legislature and the last one is increase or create tax on the school sales tax and that's what we're going to do today. So we're going to go over the create taxes and the create taxes is just for the cigarette tax I put that in there and the other one increases based on those rates if this board so decided to it as your options. Quick question. Yes. The cigarette tax can we do that as ourselves or do we need state approval? All right you can do it as yourselves because statutes allow it. Thank you. That's the same thing as a mule tax? Yes. Okay. One second. Okay. We did not look at the lodging tax because based on the fact if you were to raise it anymore it all go to tourism so would not provide you any benefit your budget. I put these items out there these are pretty standard how cost reductions you of course the toughest one that the one that saves you the most is eliminate and reducing services. No one wants to go that route because as I said I've tried to define what an essential services and the best definition I found is an essential services. And the best definition I found is an essential services. And the best definition I found is an essential services. As any surface I used are not essential service a server somebody else's uses so that that's a tough one. Freezing hiring. If you look at our hiring our hiring has been in social services, the sheriff and the fire department you don't see in the admin so that's a plate all three of those are labor intensive so it's difficult to freeze the hiring there, eliminating pay increases it may have you in the short run. You're in the admin so that's a plate all three of those are labor intensive so it's difficult to freeze the hiring there. Eliminating pay increases it may help you in the short run. But in the long run. I'm happy to help you with that. Okay. you're going to lose your best employees because they're going to be poaching them away from the county. So you start to get behind the eight ball. Delay capital expenditures is always an option. Delay equipment and building maintenance. And I assure all of you, I'm not recommending any of these things. These are just items that people look at. Increased useful life of assets, i.e., instead of keeping a car eight years, you keep it nine or ten, which also drives your maintenance costs up. This one here is one that makes sense to a certain degree, but it's not short-term. It's long-term. In any organization, I came from the business side. And in the business side, you're competing for profits, so you always have to find a way to improve systems, softwares, improve processes. You have to be innovative. One thing we're looking at this year is the budget. We're going to make some changes going into the budget. We're going to start the budget by letting all our department heads know. This is the level. You can get to. If you decide to cross this number, and we're going to base it probably on a factor of inflation and population growth, anyone that department that wants to exceed that number better have pretty darn good justification. And that's probably how we're going to start the budget this year. I've done that in the past, and it's a good tool to start reducing costs. If you look at where we've looked at it over the last few years, controlling costs is very important, especially when you're adding more. And so we're looking at the cost of services and other. And finally, to the last graph. This graph shows you the employees per 1,000 population. I've used this, and I think it's probably the best measure of efficiency for a government over time and comparing yourself to like organizations. So this shows you from 2020 to 2025. So I'll start over the far right. You have the jail. You see it's gone from 1.9 employees per thousand of population to 2.17. However, I will tell you they have so many unfilled positions, I don't think that's really had a significant budget impact. As we said earlier, they keep rolling money, reducing our costs. The fire department is the big one, and this is because we are going from a volunteer fire department to a paid fire department. So we've gone from one half a firefighter per thousand people to almost two firefighters per thousand people. When we had the fire make their presentation, if I remember right, and if you may correct me, it was eight firefighters a year for ten years to get it up to the staffing level they were looking at. The sheriff has gone from 1.5 per thousand to 1.71 per thousand. If you take out the SROs, it's pretty much 1.5 to 1.5. So the increase per thousand in the sheriff department's SROs. Department of Social Services has increased significantly, but the services they provide have increased significantly. I tell you, the largest increase in there is starting to happen is you're seeing a lot more elderly care, and that's putting a real burden on social services, the care of the elderly and the things they're required to do. When you do an all other, which includes administration, employees per thousand has actually gone down over time, which you should expect. If that's going up, then that's not a good sign. It's the one area. It's probably the easiest area where you're not as labor intensive. You can find ways with innovation software, different ways of doing things. That's it. Go back to the one you said. So on the firemen and the sheriff's department, are state averages that we required or suggested heavily? Are we? Are we there? We're actually, I don't know for the fire. On the sheriff, we exceeded, but the states, and that's based on what they call the comp board numbers, but that's really just for the state. It's an old form, and it's just to determine your funding. So they'll fund you for that many positions. It's probably not a good measure of how many officers you need per thousand. The other question I have, and I'll kind of pick on you, you're new, you're not from Frederick County, you've been other places as an administrator. When I met, we were talking about, a lot of people in Frederick County say, you know, you need to cut out all this extra in the county. And you, being an outsider coming in here the second year, you made a comment to me. Would you mind to do that so that would be on public record? Do you remember what we talked about? Yes, I do. Okay. Did I say no comment? Just kidding. I've come from other locations, and I've looked at other locations, and Frederick County doesn't have what you would call a lot of firemen. We've got a lot of firemen. We've got a lot of excessive services. You can go to other places where communities do a lot of, they provide a lot more services. And so for the most part, and I think that is your difficulty when you start looking at cutting services, there's not a lot of frivolous services here. We also discussed where we didn't have a lot of fat in our administrative areas. This is a pretty lean group, and there's not a lot of waste with our current employees. And I think anyone, you can tell that, we have a lot of people that are going to be working on the vehicles, the buildings, and the number of people. I appreciate it. Thank you. It's a good outside view, and you've been other places to compare. So. If I may just real quick, when I came here, the first thing I do is, you know, I come from a finance background, and I go look at the budget, and I go, where are they hiding all the money? You know, I've done budgeting for years, and everybody has their little places where they hide their funds, and their little stash funds. And, you know, I found little bits here and there, and there's always some ways you can improve, but there wasn't a lot of that. Thank you. Let me just add, on the fire and rescue, Bob, right now, we're expected to grow eight people per year for the next ten years. Correct. That's a safety issue as much as anything else. So, we have stations which have two people. If there's a fire, you're going to have two people there. If there's a rescue operation, they're going to have to either put their lives on the line, no backup, or watch somebody literally burn in a house. We have a number of stations that are empty, 30, 45% of the time, we end with one, because they're serving other people. So, that's an essential need, in my opinion. And that's what that's reflecting, to try to bring that so that we can provide the services we need across the county, where I have a heart attack, I have a fire, et cetera. And if I may interject on that line, as I was at a community meeting, and it's interesting, it's going back to what is essential and what's not essential. And at a meeting, some of the people that were, I'll just say, close to my age, to them, what was more important was EMTs and ambulances and that type of service. And for some of the younger people, what was more important was the schools and the service for their children. So, everybody has a different idea of what's important. Thank you. Thanks, Mike. If I could, as far as being efficient, people have put, there are some thoughts on the table of looking at some of our operations still for fire and rescue. We were built on a volunteer system. The equipment's not in common. We're not in the same boat. And we become more of a professional staff. A bunch of us thought that we should look at whether there is some efficiency gains that we could get there by standardizing the equipment we buy. We also get the advantage, we've said this many times, where someone trained at one station can run into another station or to a fire somewhere else and they'll recognize the equipment and know how to operate it. So, it may be true that we don't have a lot of fat, but it's a process. We should always be looking at improving it. If I may, that's where I go back to this one, the second one there, which I think is the most important. There are, I find, there's not a lot of waste here, but I think there's a lot of room here to improve systems and processes and the way you do things. I think that is your biggest savings. I agree with you on the fire department when you get a uniform equipment. Do you have redundancy of equipment? You know, when you have volunteer fire, you have fire fighters, they each run their own station and it's not like a uniform system. And as they may have the jaws of life, does every station have a piece of equipment that could be utilized? You know, I heard that same thing. And so, that's improving systems and there is ways to save money there, absolutely. I will also say, and I was on the liaison for a number of years, the 11 stations are beginning to work together. So, you're beginning to see that uniformity. Some places need a brush truck, for example. You know, the red blood area, which I don't need, and red blood. The flip side is, in red blood, there's a, you know, fire and rescue ladder that you don't need elsewhere. So, there is an effort by the 11 stations to try to work together. I think that's important to note. And on the sheriff's office side, the SROs we've seen have really been critical with the schools. So, I mean, they've done a good job of keeping the numbers down as well, but having the SROs in the schools. Like, maybe words passed through something. Like if there's works happening on this now, but we're seeing the numbers go up there, maybe we'll get to the station that gives us the知 storey at the So that was the end slide of your presentation. The agenda had a few other links, but that was just supporting information? Correct. So my thought is that today we should ask questions about this data, things that we don't understand. It could be fleshed out better. I think several of us have hit you with some questions. I think we had some at 1 a.m. last night going through this again. One of the things that we haven't accomplished so far is once we get a good handle on this, this is actually the easy part, understanding our finances. I know you made a lot of quips about how hard it is and it's been confusing, some pieces of it for sure. The hard part is projecting forward and saying where we'll be in two, three, four, five, six years as best we can estimate so that we do, we're not too conservative and fail to undertake the projects that are needed, but we're not too bold and end up binding the county in some way. And what if we do have a shortfall after we've initiated major projects? Right. I'm not sure the board has a consensus on whether we get it from taxes or find some ways to curtail spending or, as you said, then start curtailing, delaying the next capital projects while we recover. So the next phase, I think, is to project forward and try and get a comfort level for all of us about where we'll be in a few years and how much money we would need to get out of it. And then we'll see what we would need to come up with. Then the argument comes about where to come up with it. I don't see many numbers beyond 25 here yet and we need to be able to project that. As uncertain as the future is, we still have to make some kind of projection so that we can explain to the public. So. And why we're doing what we're doing. That's my opinion anyway and I'll leave it to the board as to your thoughts. Thank you. So, Mr. Chairman, I'll throw out some thoughts here. We're here to deal with three school issues as well as other budget issues. I'd like just to show two slides. Do you have the two slides with both? Up here or on? You can throw it up there. No, no. Yeah, Scott. So you've escaped the Excel spreadsheet and . Yeah. Yeah. So, Scott, go to the growth tab. Did you say growth? Yep. Correct. So this is a slide that I sent you all on the show. On this slide here, that's better. You can make it larger. In 2000, Millbrook had not yet been built. It was a very small town. It was a very small town. It was a very small town. We had 2,900 students with capacity of 2,700. We were about 10% over with the two schools. We then built Millbrook, which took care of the capacity issue. That's the 40-50 number. And that capacity issue has been pretty good for the last, you know, 15 to 20 years. If you remember in 2017 or 2018, we had a discussion on adding an additional 400 seats, but I'll take a step back. Right now, today, in 2024, there's 4,600 students with capacity of 3,900. Next year, when James Wood, the renovation is completed, we expect it to have capacity of 4,600 with 4,200 seats available, which is still 8% over capacity. If we had done Millbrook seven or eight years ago, we would have added 400 seats, and those 400 seats, 42 plus 4 is 48. We would actually be under capacity through the year 2030. So, for those of you that were not on the Board, just recognize that we didn't, this Board appropriated money, but the school Board chose not to go and use that. In 2017, 2018, I supported a Millbrook expansion. And the reason I'm changing my mind today on that is the numbers at the bottom. Right now, you expect high school students to be able to go to Millbrook. Right now, you expect high school students to be 5,300, 5,317, with a capacity of 4,294. That puts us 24% over. So, between that number there, the fact that you've had 300 students at Sharando for the last 20 years is the reason for those of you that have been on this Board as long as I have to say, I don't think the Millbrook expansion solves the problem. That's what's leading me to say a fourth high school to address the issue. And then, Scott, if you can go to solutions. Here are just some items which we all can discuss further. Mike's done some of this. But impact fees, right now, each new house has cost the county about $27 million, not including the cost of roads. And if we are going to go and address impact fees, we'd have to have a consensus among this Board to try to address that. Dolores Soltz has said that she would go and help to write something on impact fees. If we collectively go and address impact fees, we would have to have a consensus among this Board. If we collectively as a Board want to go down that route, what we ought to do next month or so, get together with, you know, Delegate Oates and put something onto the agenda for the General Assembly to consider. That would also mean that we would have to go and talk to the committees of each of those jurisdiction committees, talk to the Governor, talk to the Lieutenant Governor, whether it's a tie-breaking vote. But that's an avenue to consider that. If you don't do that, a meals tax adjustment. A meals tax adjustment we could do this year if you wanted to. If we did a meals tax adjustment for January, that's $1.8 million additional for this year if we did a two-cent adjustment. The personal property tax we'll get it into next year. Real estate tax, depending on what you do. I'm not keen on a real estate tax increase because it's a mandatory tax, as I've said before. You can't go and sell your extra bedroom. The 1% additional sales tax, solely for purchases. You go to the General Assembly. You go to the schools and for debt. It brings in $20 million. And to make a quick summary, if you spend $10,000 on purchases or less, the cost to that is $100. If you do a 5% or 10% or even a 1% increase on your real estate tax, it's going to be more than $100. So I think that the 1% purchase is the least painful of the options. So that's what I wanted to throw out on the table. The other item that I'll throw out to you. Go ahead. On that last number you gave, we have not quite 100,000 residents. And you're suggesting they would only be spending $100 more on that tax per year. That doesn't add up. $100 times 100,000 residents is $10 million. Not $20 million. So you're just giving a ratio figure. But that's not a Let me just walk out. The assumption on the 1% sales tax is for a family that spends $10,000 a year on purchases, you buy clothes, you buy shoes, you buy sporting equipment. That's what that tax is. It's a tax on purchases, not including food. If you want to buy a car for $30,000, then the tax that year would be 1% of $30,000 or $300. So this was just showing, this came from the state, that a 1% tax on purchases would generate about $20 million. But the cost to each family would be about $100, assuming they only had $10,000 on purchases or less. Take a look at your family. You can take a look at mine. So does that answer your question? $100 per family is not going to raise $20 million a year. Mr. Chairman. That number includes anyone coming through the county, not just county residents. That 1% sales tax captures folks that are coming into Frederick County and purchasing. Okay, that's fine. But they don't spend more than half of the total money in the county. So the impact on a family would certainly be more than the figure you're giving if your goal is to raise $20 million or even $10 million a year. Why's that? Because remember, for your wealth it's more than just the Joshua week and we discussed getting that process rolling so we don't miss the vote. At one point, so the schools, good for them, they're having a legislative summit with those representatives, but unfortunately, A, their issues don't overlap with ours, their school particular issues, and B, it's on a date we just have to keep to go replace the county administrator. Attorney. The county attorney. What did I say? Oh, the county attorney. The county attorney. See you, Mike. It was a presentation, not that one. My apologies. He just wants to see if you're a wayscaler. The county attorney, which we all know we need. So we all agreed, and I've spoken to some other supervisors about these random people with different opinions I met them at, that we should have our own legislative summit if we can have one. With all three of them, with French, Wiley, and Oates. Correct. And it made me think about the fact that we're all in this together, and I think that's what we're all about. And I think that's what we're all about. And I think that's what we're all about. And I think that's what we're all about. And I think that's what we're all about. And I think that's what we're all about. With French, Wiley, and Oates. Correct. And it may be that time is limited and getting their attention on the same day is difficult. So we'll be lucky if we get more than one date possible from them within the next 30 days, but we should do it as soon as we can. So that means we need to energize our emails back and forth and our emails to the county administrator, collecting our thoughts and what we should lobby for. And we don't need a quorum at that meeting. So you can get something at local level, set up a statement— This's so close. See you next time. could submit your thoughts through someone else if you couldn't make it if we had to do it and you weren't available or you can attend remotely we don't need a physical quorum so I think there's a good chance we could have it the other thing we asked him to do is our list from last year most of those items remain but some of them would be modified they've been partly addressed in Richmond over the year or the situations change so so he is working on language changes and recommendations to us as well so hopefully we'll see that in time and then we've got work to do before do we have a consensus I think we do we all wanted to do this that you're willing to support a meeting with delegates Wiley and Oates and senator French in the next 30 days if we can absolutely okay but we've already submitted what we want what we would like to see from a legislative we have not seen that list you asked what's a bit of a new list issue so no no we were asked to input by September 11th what we thought should be allotted to us and it was not a new list so I think we've got work to do but we on the legislative our legislative priorities and then that was me gathered together but we have not received how that flushed out for example I guess that's why I asked specifically that we pursue the 1% sales tax for the legislative agenda for this year but you know absolutely we need to have that meeting with our with our representatives and on everybody's suggestions we would perhaps have to vote whether we have a majority of that agree with with something like that so I'll return the floor to view with just one more comment but I'm glad you're pointing it out some of those items we do not have control over they would require Richmond and we know that this governor and at least the last legislature was not keen on any increase that they saw falling on business so it's a some of these would be very difficult to get done I would think like impact fees I think that's difficult in the next year maybe in a future year so my quick comment on that is all of us together have to figure out how to solve a problem so an impact fees my assessment is you have a 50-50 chance if all of you all of us said collectively for the benefit of Frederick County just to be not be for the benefit of Frederick County would be for the benefit of any County for example that's grown more than 50% since the year 2000 the reason we are making that is the General Assembly does not go County specific but they will do for generalities and so if we draft legislation that would include Frederick County there's only a couple counties that fit the qualifications of growing 50% since the year 2000 we happen to be one of them but this is something that we need I've talked to Bill Wiley who said you know you need a revenue source so if we collectively say to our local delegation this is what we need at least they can say I'm voting on this on behalf of Frederick County not because I delegate X or Senator Y want to do it and that's one thought the same thing goes for the 1% sales tax all three voted no on this but from what I've seen right now that's the least painful way to raise money and so again a General Assembly issue we have to do our own stuff then you know we're at the other stuff that's one comment the other comment because we're dealing with school issues is the two middle schools on the CIP collectively there's about 28 29 million dollars I'm going to suggest that we take the capital fund which we've been saving for capital projects and we're going to take the capital fund and we're going to take the capital funds and we're going to take the capital funds and we're going to use that so we're going to take a total of 21 million dollars of capital and we're going to pay in cash work both items stonewall projects six or seven billion dollars the Middletown this ones 22 but if we go and pay cash for that you save the cost of borrowing if we borrow the twenty eight twenty nine million dollars you're talking about someplace the neighborhood twelve to thirteen million dollars in interest costs over 20 years so you save the interest costs we're saving money specifically for capital costs it's a true capital project and so we use the money for that, then the only thing you have to do is that if we do a fourth high school, how to pay for it, if you do an expansion for one of the other schools, how to pay for it. It eliminates that cost. So I'm just throwing those thoughts on the table, Mr. Chairman. We can discuss and go from there. The county administrator pointed out, though, that by paying cash, you avoid that amount, whatever the amount of interest is over the life. However, with that money sitting in the capital fund, it's earning only 0.9% less than the bond cost. So you're really only saving the difference. What you're saving is, if you take $29 million and you pay for something in cash, you do not have to pay for the interest on that. And the flip side of that is, you yourself have said, I don't want to go and I want to use that money for a project. Here's the legitimate capital. Here's the capital cost for that project. So I'm saying, it's tax-faring money. Use it for a project that, if there's a consensus to do so, and go from there. So would we have any idea what today's Fed rate adjustment would do to bonds and interest? I don't think it's going to be significant at this point, but I fully anticipate you'll see future drops in the future. But in the same respect, you're also seeing the cost of borrowing will also decrease. I don't know whether it's correct or not, but I heard on the news today that it's a half. It is. Yeah, it drops to a half. So it could save us some money. That makes sense. On the other hand, the other drawback is we lose maneuvering room. We don't have a fund in case something comes up. You'd still have a couple million dollars. We don't have $30 million. You'd only have a couple million dollars. That's correct. Well, that's just... While we're on the school issues and everything, I know the superintendent's here along with his folks. The school board's come to us with a request for funding these three projects. And I know we have to figure out how we're going to fund it, but we also know that we have to do these projects. These have to be done. We can't kick that can down the road anymore. We need to do it. We need to prepare for it now. We need to get started on that. And I think once you accept the fact, yes, we're going to do this project, you'll find the money. That's right. Mr. Chairman, I agree. I totally agree with Supervisor Wells. And to me personally, I'd like to see the request move forward and go on our next agenda for us to go and get this vote out of the way. You can kick this can down the road. Obviously, it's been done before. You know, we just got to make a decision. We're going to do it. We're looking at, right now, available $32 million in the capital fund. Now, we're looking at not even having expenditures that we have to worry about, quite frankly, until 2027 is when we'll have to come up with 2.5, almost $2.6 million. You know, I mean, I've spent a long time doing budgets. And you budget and you plan. And then you work. But at this point, we don't know what we don't know. But we've got to make a decision. We've watched the schools down. This school goes from $94 million to where we are today. It's not going to go down in price. And if we're going to make this up, if we're going to do it based on what we see with these numbers, this is the time to do it. This is our opportunity to do it. So I really think I would like the request that we have. I think we have this going, the agenda. We have to do the vote, do what we need to do to schedule the public meeting, whatever the process is. What day are you looking for? Are you looking for the one in a week? No, October. Because you have to advertise for a public meeting. It's a resolution, do you? Yes, you do. So it would be the October meeting. Mr. Chair, I'd like to add a couple of data points to what's already been said. Just to address the three projects. Okay. Current enrollment, we got current enrollment data from the school board on September 6th. We have seven schools that are over 100% capacity. Of the five that would be affected if we did a fourth high school, that would affect the three high schools currently, and two elementary schools. Those five are Jordan Springs is at 130% over capacity. Sharano is at 122%. Middletown is at 121%. Millbrook is at 114%. And Jameswood High School is at 112%. Those are numbers as of September the 6th. In addition, Bass Hoover and Jameswood Middle School are also over 100%. Bass Hoover is at 105%. Jameswood Middle is at 103%. There are four more schools, Armell, Evendale, Redbud, and Orchard View, that are over 95%. Okay. So, we've got 11 schools out of our total inventory, which I believe is a little bit over half of our schools, are at 95% or over. Just looking at a few more data points, looking at residential and business growth in the county. Our population in 2010 was 78,000 and change. Our population now is 95,994. Okay. And headed towards 100,000 real quickly here. I looked at the housing starts data here recently. From January to August of this year alone, 852 new houses being built. The same time last year, from January to August, it was 558. So, 558 last year, 852 this year. Supervisor Jewell already mentioned that prices continue to go up. In 2017, $91 million was the proposed amount. $10 million was the proposal for the fourth high school. Now it's 151 and change. We call your attention to the Winchester Star article that was published on September the 3rd. And I point out that this was not a poll, because it wasn't a scientific poll, but it was just a survey. There were 1,250 responses collected within 24 hours. That's 1.3% of the population. population. They posted 11 slides. They asked 11 questions and posted 11 slides. 77% were very positive on a, had a very positive view of Fort High School. An additional 14% were somewhat positive for over 90%. 97%, question two, 97% of the respondents said that Frederick County Public Schools is overcrowded. 84% were very concerned with overcrowding. 94% were concerned with safety due to overcrowding. 92% were concerned with the impact on SOL scores due to overcrowding. 76% did not have, reported not having a concern over tax increases. 24% did, but they contradicted themselves a little bit later in the survey. Actually, the next question. Tax rates. 27% said they were somewhat concerned about the tax rates. And 23% were very concerned. So combined, 50% of the people were either somewhat or very concerned about the tax rate. And again, they're contradicting themselves a little bit here. Next question was, would this have a major financial impact on my life? 89% said no. And there were a couple other questions on trust on local government. Is government fiscally responsible in trusting public schools, et cetera, et cetera. So, so far, we've been talking about the, you know, all the costs and so on. Thank Mr. Bolhoffer for all that work that he put into his presentation. But the need is there. And I concur with Supervisor Wells and Supervisor Jewell that we could take a snapshot at any time. It's September 18th right now of 2024. We're taking a snapshot. We're taking a snapshot of the cost of the school. And I think that's a great idea. And I think that's a great idea. And I think that's a great idea. And I think that's a great idea. We can only see so far into the future. It doesn't matter when we do that, if we wait until February of next year or July of next year. We're still going to be taking a snapshot on that day. And we're only going to look so far into the future. So I believe the need is there. And I just think we have to address it. And I'd like to see us move it forward to a public hearing at an upcoming meeting. Mr. Chairman, Supervisor Leroy, I just heard you talk about a survey. And it's really easy, if you ask me a survey, do I need a new car or something? And it's really easy to spend other people's money. And my concern with this high school, in 2016, so I think we all say yes, the need is there. We've seen the numbers. So I'm going to bring up just a couple points. But in 2019, was it that Millbrook, the expansion was approved? I think so. I think it was 18. So, it isn't, and I was not on the board, several of us were not on the board, but that was an attempt to take care of the overcrowding. True? Correct. They did not want that. So that's my child saying, but mom, I have to have this toy. No. Okay. So the point is that sometimes if this is what the people want, is to just expand and that fulfill the capacity, then was it up to the school board, or just say no, I don't know. My next point. Heather. Okay. The board approved. Appropriated the funds. The board said appropriate money. The school board then said, thank you very much, but we do not want to go. But that's not what they wanted. They did not want to go to fourth high school. The school board said they did not want to do the addition. They wanted to go to fourth high school. Very good. But yet, they still are talking in the near future of an expansion of that particular school. So they didn't want it then. I go to 2016, and I look at Frederick County Middle School. 49.5 million for that school. Under budget. Built under budget. No, no, no, no, no. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, it was way above what Loudoun County was doing schools for. I'm not talking about Loudoun County. I'm talking about funded money. Okay. Okay, well then let's look. Budgeted money spent versus funded money, so. I believe. But we're okay. Okay, but I do believe that it was a big waste of taxpayer dollars because there were things that, yes, a classroom had just four walls. A teacher can be sufficient. Her smart board. I've been in a classroom. That does not make the education. So the whole school is windows. That's the most expensive operation. I look in 2023 at Rocktown High School. The contract date. Okay, I'll actually go to Stafford because the contract date was one year ago, September of 23. It's a capacity of 2,151 students. And they're coming in under where we are. Who's that? It's in Stafford County. Stafford County High School. It's a high school for 2,100 students. They're coming in. The contract date was September of 23. So they approved construction. They went ahead with the project one year ago. It's not built yet. Was that approved in 20, like that would have been approved about probably 2019. It says contract award dates. Because you're right. In 2019, Rocktown approved it for 87 million. So inflation has definitely. So my question to the schools is 100. We can say yes, they didn't want the expansion then. Yes, we're over capacity. But $151 million puts people in my district completely out of their homes. Maybe they can't do the tax. And we can come up with different ways to raise taxes. I understand that. But why don't they ask for? $350 million for the school. Where is the limit? And are they looking at alternate ways prefab buildings? Or are we looking at another Taj Mahal, Frederick County Middle? My district gets to benefit for Frederick County Middle. However, everybody I talked to that was an overspending of money. I just want to make one more point because in 2019, which wasn't so far away, the United States. The United States spent more on education per pupil than all but two other nations. At 15,800 per student. Meanwhile, our test scores have continued to decrease. And you can say maybe we're not paying our teachers enough. There's many, many, many, many solutions. But I just want to put a thought in your head because because I'm personally dealing with this in my districts at an elementary school. And if it continues down a path of following without morals and values. What our citizens believe in then people are going to pull out and find a different way to educate their kids. They may not be able to send a private. That's okay. They can homeschool. Anybody can homeschool. Okay, you can homeschool and have a job. Believe me, my friends do it. So I want to take just a minute to import address an important topic and make a few points about a session a situation. We now face in Frederick County schools as more and more citizens of our County are learning every day. One of our elementary schools has hired as a second grade teacher. A male who apparently. Believes he was wrongly born into a male body and that he should have been a female. I cannot tell you how many constituents the other and others across the county had expressed to me their concern about this hiring. However, today I do not want to comment on that one person but rather the broader issue that this hiring raises. What policies should we have about hiring people that suffer from this condition causing them to reject their sex? There may be such teachers in our schools, which we are not aware. And and this issue. Can be expected to spread to other schools and other grades. Whenever I have raised a concern about this issue to persons involved in the Frederick County schools. I've simply been told that neither the board of supervisors for the school board have any role to play. I have been told that there is a federal law which prohibits any discrimination and hiring decisions by schools based on gender identity. While I have consulted with some lawyers who work in this area and that's not exactly the truth. I'm not going to read you this entire thing. The law in question is title seven. It's the 1964 Civil Rights Act. That law is not specific to schools. More rather applies to all employers with over 15 employees. The language of that law. He says because of sex was meant to prohibit women. Now that statute is being used to protect a man who thinks he should have been a woman. The only reason we come to this position is a 2020 US Supreme Court decision in Bostock versus Clayton County, Georgia. They are the Supreme Court. Resolved three cases and you can read on those if you choose. They pointed out it's never meant to protect a sexual orientation or gender identity. However, it ruled when an employer fires a person based on those factors and necessarily involve sex. And after all Congress chose to use the words because of sex. So to summarize the law passed by Congress bans employment discrimination based on sex and core such admitted that he meant to the supporters of the 1960s. So that's why I think. For law only biological sex but this Bostock decision actually changed the law enacted by Congress to ban employment discrimination. So I'm going to I can talk to you about this after but currently August 16 2024 there's an US Department of Education versus Louisiana. And that will is filings are still going on but this just raises the Bostock and the US Department of Education versus Louisiana raise many questions. I have a mail address. Click on that. and purporting to be a female in front of young children, what message are we communicating to our children? Do we really believe that a person can change his or her sex? Do we want children to believe they can choose to be a different sex? What does the so-called transgender teacher say when asked by a student if they are a man or a woman? Do these teachers promote the lifestyle they are following? All right. These are my thoughts and my questions. I certainly do not have all the answers, but I believe that the Bostock decision was profoundly wrong because, as two justices stated, it is an act of legislation. The Supreme Court gets cases wrong. If the Supreme Court can determine that African Americans are not citizens, as it once did, and that the Japanese should be incarcerated during World War II, as it once did, we know it can be wrong. I believe we have a duty to act first, in the best interest of the children who attend our schools. Our duty to the children is higher than our duty to defer to the teachers we hire to carry out that mission. I do not believe this to be a controversial position, and even if it is, that's my position. I believe if we do nothing, we'll see a significant exodus from our schools as parents remove their children to protect them. If we have this, if people decrease and get out of the schools because parents no longer trust us to protect their children, it bears directly. They are not own children to that school. Ourir authority is to create a strongparent meaningful connection between to our children as parents and those had DiCaprio said he was always connected to them but,uo, and, this is still not News Over The currents and in all that time, I did not Lightning Cor年 I'm going to make a statement here about the seven individuals that are sitting on this board currently. One of us has a child or a grandchild in the school system. That's incorrect. I'm tired of people saying that. They've been saying about that for years. Mr. Jewell, I do too. I had someone in the school system, their public school, they go to school. I had someone want to punch me when I was knocking on doors, calling me a liar. No kidding. My apologies. Saying that I didn't have a kid in school. And I know they knew that, well, but they knew that I did because someone in their family worked in the same school. I apologize. And I have another child in the same high school now. So we're not here to debate school policies. However, I think it is fair to note there are a lot of national studies saying that parents are moving increasingly to homeschooling. They're losing confidence in public schools because of the issue she mentioned and many others. I have a list I've assembled. I will not read you here. I have a list I've assembled. I have a list I've assembled. I have a list I've assembled. of calls that I've gotten from constituents on a whole host of issues, and that's surely one of them. But there are many others, and the parents are telling me that they're going to make different decisions for their children if things keep going in this direction or if they don't revert and correct themselves. So I think that is a concern for the future. Homeschooling has increased nationwide. Private schooling has increased nationwide. And if that acceleration continues, then that will have an impact on the total number of children in our public school system. These are serious concerns, and I'll have to discuss with an attorney how far we should go discussing them here on this board. But that is a factor. I'm shocked at how many people have been contacting me. As far as moving this forward, I agree with Supervisor Lockridge and I think all of you. We all see the need. We see the growth, at least so far, in the public schools. Can we take a consensus about moving this forward? We can, but I'd like everyone to be able to speak who would like to. And I would like to say a few things about what's been discussed. With regard to the survey, if you ask me, whether Fourth High School gives me a warm and fuzzy in my heart, I would have answered yes as well to the survey. But I don't know what the cost of that is to me in any kind of real terms, if any, because we're looking at options as hard as we can to find funds to do this. It is easy to say, yes, I would like something, but we're not able to put before the public, if we had a public hearing, what that cost to them will be. So let's say we drain the capital fund almost to empty, as you suggest, for two of the school projects, and we're going to undertake all three that are before us. Then we have the debt to finance from the Fourth High School remaining. So if that's on the order of $10 million per year, where is that money going to come from? How much of it do we have? I can't even say today. I think we're going to have to do it. I think we could have a guess, and as you said, it's only a guess into the future, within a couple months. If this work continues to look into exactly where we're at and project from each of our departments, for example, if we continue to hire eight firefighters a year, they could tell us, instead of just giving us a budget submission for next year, they could give us the way, like the government does, a POM or a program, a five-year program, what do you think your costs are going to be to get where you want to be? And if we can get that to the point where we can get the money that we want to get in the next five years, that is doable. We could look at that, and we could project revenues as well. In fact, they may be easier, assuming no recession, than expenses. And we could sit down and say, okay, out of that $10 million a year, plus the cost to operate the school, we're going to add staff as well, $10 million a year just in construction bond costs for multiple years, if we have the funds, we're going to have to pay that $10 million a year. And that's going to be a very, very expensive investment. And so, we're going to have to look at that. And if we can get that to the point where we can get the money that we want to get in the next five years, we're going to have to pay that $10 million a year, and that's going to be a very, very expensive investment. So, I'm not raising taxes to cover half of it. That tells us something. We can disabuse people's worry by half. If we don't have any of extra funds to spend, then we have to tell them the full cost. But if we don't have the funds, then we have to deal with the cost of the school. And that's going to be a very, very expensive investment. So, I'm not going to be able to get that money to move something forward that's the largest single expenditure the county's ever embarked on. That's more or less irreversible once we start. And I can't even give an order of magnitude estimate to the public what it's going to mean to them in new taxes. I can't do it today. In a couple of months, I probably could give a ballpark estimate. I think in a couple of months, we're going to have any. So, let me ask you a question. Uh-huh. If we don't have extra funds for this, and you've said that we don't have any fat on our bones to cut in current services that we provide, then $10 million a year plus up to another $5 million in operating costs, let's just take the low bound, $10 million. When the public asks you at public hearing, what is it going to mean to me? How are you going to raise that $10 million? What is your answer? Well, right now, that's once the school is built, correct? So, it ramps up. It's millions of dollars per year. Once the school is built, that's five or six years down the road. Again, right now, we're just trying to get this thing off and running, just the construction. Okay, so, if architecture and engineering is over $10 million itself. What you pointed out, what I can answer to the public, that in 2024, our revenues were $11 million. Now, like I explained to you earlier, the first year, we're not going to have to worry about the debt services. But the second year, the debt service is going to be $2.6 million. At the height of this, it's going to be $10.8 million, which is in 2030. We cannot forecast what our revenue is going to be in 2030, but we've got an idea of what our revenues are going to be next year. Based on our revenues, yes, we can afford to do this. Yes. Now, do we think that? Do we think that we're going to have to raise taxes? Who knows? Right now, the way the numbers work, it doesn't look like we will have to raise taxes. But we cannot keep on kicking this can down the road. So, where do you get the idea that we wouldn't have to raise taxes by four, even three years from now? Based on the numbers that we're seeing from the revenues and expenditures. That's where I get my numbers from. The same numbers you've been looking at. We don't have revenues and expenditures projected for three or four years. We don't. We're based on a yearly process. That's what we need to do. Let's see here. Meals tax. 2022, $7.8 million over 7.9. Oh, now it's $10.2 million in 2025. All we know is what we can see forecasting. That's just one piece of the tax. I'm not going to sit here and guarantee anything. But you're correct. Revenues increase. We have the revenues coming in that we could actually start this project. So, you're correct that revenues increase historically. And we've been a growing county. So, they've increased quite a bit. But so have expenditures. It's not like we're running a $10 million a year annual surplus. So, we're not running a $2 million a year annual surplus. Okay. Mr. Chairman, just a couple things. I think at the beginning of the meeting, Mr. Bolhofer said, we haven't received the resolution yet. Did I understand you? We do have the resolution. We do have the resolution from the school. Yes. Okay. One of the things that you said this evening, and that doesn't sound like we really discussed that, but we talked about our fund balance reserves of being X amount of money. And best management practices say we should have 17% of our total budget set aside in our fund balance. That's correct. Is that not what you said? Okay. So, right now, we have 20%. We are taking above 20% and putting over into quote unquote our capital fund, but it's, as we know, we've used it for transportation, et cetera. I don't know if that title is appropriate or not. But the reality is, the difference between our 17% of what best management practices tell us is that we're not going to be able to get that money back. Let's make sure we can remain fair. Let's think about how we're going to make sure we're going to make sure the network has enough funds if we need it back. And, seriously, we're Starting from that one. I just would argue that we're a big effort to be looking at emergency planning programs. I mean, there's so much crisis emergent facility, research development, area planning, all that kind of stuff, work we're having on campus, and how we're going to cover the cost of public school as provinces are not going anywhere. So the model we'd use is again to� Along with the policies on the middle of the road. I am also somewhat excited to see where we're getting at, somehow, is the policyоновat society. So, what can we do about it? That job work? I don't know. and I think all of us from an accounting background would agree that we'd rather err on a conservative approach, maybe underestimate your revenues and overestimate your expenses so we don't end up short, right? But there is $7 million right there that could help offset this $10 million uptick in our debt service. So there are resources. We've got to figure out how to put all those pieces together, and do we want to make a policy change to address that additional $10 million uptick? None of us want to raise taxes, but we all clearly know that we are beyond capacity in addressing the needs for our community. So those are some ideas. I know in previous work sessions, we've talked about the need for a policy change, we've talked about the revenues, but we've also talked about value engineering, and are there opportunities? I know Mr. Bolhoffer had met with someone about discussing value engineering. We also know that certain costs for architecture and engineering are roughly 10% of a cost of a project. So that's $15 million there. Is that a true number? We don't know. We've not received a breakdown of each. So that's a $15 million estimate. Of those numbers. Is that correct? That's correct. Usually between 8% and 10% for safety's sake. I always use the 10%. 10% of $151 million is a $15 million estimate. We don't have an actual cost. So it seems to me, while I believe there is a, at least from what I'm hearing around the table, it sounds like there's a, obviously we all know that we need to move forward with all of these projects. How we pay, how we pay for them. I think we can work through that process of how we pay for them. And we can either say we're going to change our policy and we have $7 million here. I know I've heard some people say a cigarette tax. That's going to take us a while to get all of those things in place. Mr. Bolhoffer said we had $2 million and our locality next to us already has a cigarette tax. So maybe there are some options that we need to work through. So Mr. Bolhoffer, based on all the information you've given us this evening, what do you recommend for us as far as our next steps? Wow. And we're running out of time. Right. We're running out of time. Can I ask a clarification? On $7 million, real quick, that would be a policy change from 20% to 17%, right? However, that's not money building up in an account somewhere because of our policy. That money gets spent every year. It's sitting there. Yes. But there's no bank account with that $7 million that's been multiplying every year. It's anything over 20% that's going into this capital reserve. Right. And so if we said everything over 17% goes into the capital fund, it would grow by that amount. Right. But. The inflow and outflow of funds, it's still getting spent, even if it hasn't been called a capital fund. We don't have a giant surplus sitting somewhere. So that's a naming convention. That's not actually a found $7 million. You're asking him to make a policy decision. A quick comment to you on the 17. Just a little on the same page. If you had $100 million, 17% is going into reserves. Then 20% above goes in. That 3% differential, that's the $12 million that you had there on your out years. That's what I think it's representing. Which isn't even $12 million. Right. So I think it would be good for us to have some revenue, maybe some thoughts from administration on how we address the $10 million. And perhaps we could see something from you. Some ideas to make sure that we're looking at all of this. I have a quick comment to Heather. So Heather, your comment about the high school that was 2023. I'm just asking as a question. Is that a hard number? Or did that include soft numbers? Let me ask you a question. Going through this a few years ago. The hard numbers were some projections, but the soft numbers were not. So my comment to you and to Dr. Hummer. Is basically to Heather. If that's a good number, both hard and soft, then I'll support that. I mean, I'm not waiting to 151. I'm waiting to whatever you can get for good value. But if that's only the cost of the building, it doesn't include the floors, doesn't include the computers, etc. It doesn't include the soft numbers. And that number changes. So I know in the previous situation, a number, and I'm making up this number, like $100 million hard number. The total cost was like $140 million when you included the soft cost. I'm not. I'm just asking. Great. That's on the Virginia Department of Education's site. So I'll say to you, I'll support a lower. If you can find something that's a lower cost, I'm all for it. I just want to make certain that it's the total cost. And if Dr. Hummer and you can get the . I'm just wondering if we can get the best bang for our buck. We agree. And not make it shiny. It doesn't have to be. We agree. And we both and in my opinion, it's a waste of money. So yes, we agree. Again, my concern is going to public. Hearing, we can't tell the public how we're going to pay for it. And I can be able to tell the public. And no matter no matter, Mr. Chairman, no matter when we do this, you're not going to be certain on what you can do. No, but we can have a projection and say we believe that this is the amount we'll have to raise taxes or cut services or we won't have to do either. But if people are out there, if you're out there telling people, as you did a few meetings ago, that we have plenty of funds and there'll be no impact to the taxpayer. There's no impact to the taxpayer. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. And I'm not saying that's not the case. I'm saying that the taxpayer for building these projects. I don't, I can't in good faith, tell the public that for them to have buyer's remorse and the same meeting supervisor done was arguing. We're deficit spending right now and we have no extra costs. Okay, that was the budget number. Not not the actual. Yeah, that's right. Mr. Chairman, don't don't put words in my mouth. What I said was based on what we're seeing for revenues and expenditures, the potential is we could have to raise taxes in 20, 28 or 20, 29. Yeah, that's right. Mr. Chairman, don't don't put words in my mouth. What I said was, based on what we're seeing for revenues and expenditures, the potential is we could have to raise taxes in 20, 28 or 20, 29. The potential. I did not say that we will not have to. But I'm telling you, if we don't start the project, all it's going to do is cost more money. We we've got a resolution that's been put forth by the school board. I think it's about time we move this thing forward. We're going to public hearing. But I disagree with you as you say, when you look at the revenues expenditures, but you don't have those numbers for any of those years. You and I are going to agree to disagree because we usually do. But this is one where I look at the charts today. None of the numbers for those years. 27 and on are here. We don't know what those numbers look like. We haven't done that projection yet. We're assembling the data to do so right now. I mean, the public, if they were going to vote on this, they should know what it's going to cost them. If you're worried, if you're worried about tax increases, the only thing I can do is to simplify it. 11 years on the board. We've built. Drafts for a county middle school. Jordan Springs. Aylor. Aylor School. Taxes went up 1 cent in 11 years since I've been on the board. 1 cent. And 2 years ago, they went down. And we built those schools. Why do you know about that? They weren't $200 million, those schools. They were expensive schools at the time based on the economies. It's all relevant to where you are. So, we have. Mr. Chair, there's always. the opportunity and we have the ability to do it if we want to do it. There's always going to be unknowns. There are, like I said before, there are, on Mr. Bullhocker's slides, changes in the economy. We have a presidential election coming up two months from now. We don't know what that's going to bring. After that, there's a congressional election two years after that. I mean there's always, there's always unknowns regardless of what we plan to do. Also, before putting it onto an October and November agenda, to answer your question, Josh, if somebody said to me, tell me why, like Bob said, we've not raised taxes except the one cent, 60 to 61, the time I've been on the board, which has been eight or nine years. That's number one. Number two, the need for the school is significant. Number three, the need for the school is significant. Number four, the need for the school is significant. Number five, the need for the school is significant. Number six, the need for the school is significant. Number seven, the need for the school is significant. Number nine, paying the surcharge in the fall, another small difference. But of course, that wouldirre, it would, if nobody goes into the school ... Number eight, we were more recently Alecогодwhat do you think the grade Richter's Нет. It's another jaką I force something to be forced out and and NO. She Speaker's idea that it'sו not so low of a time. It's just elaindo by six years from now. And just kind of work through the project. Listen, you deal with rockets, okay? You gather data, everything has to go perfectly, you have to make adjustments as you go, and it basically would be that. My reason for not supporting the fourth high school eight years ago was because the alternative of $9.2 million had 400 seats. If you multiply that times three, that's $27 million for 12,000. It's a good deal, and I'll support that all day long. But today, when you have a 1,000-person overflow, it's 10 years. That's why, in my opinion, Millbrook doesn't work this time. You still have 600 kids you don't know what to do with, and that's taken me from an expansion to the fourth high school. And the pain for it, I think the least painful is the 1%, or impact fees, or for 30 seconds, you know, we bring in some businesses like technology centers, et cetera, that produce lots of money. That's another conversation for another day. But maybe we have a workshop to consider rezoning areas for TM and see if that attracts businesses. In the interest of time, we'll shut up at that point in time. We'll do it later. I don't think we can tell the public we'll pay for the sales tax, which is illegal currently, which Virginia just struck down. What was the label? We can't raise the sales tax right now. No, that's right. The general assembly would have to change. That's correct. So how would we do it? We have to have a plan to say, given the laws as they are, we can't predict how they might change for us or against us. Here's how, if our projections are right, we'll have to come up with a certain amount of funds and here's how we'll do it. And I want to put that before the public so that at a public hearing, they can weigh in on it. There you go. That's what I'm asking for. You know, all year long, Mr. Chairman, we've done things. You've asked for a consensus. So I'm asking for a consensus that we move the resolution forward to the board, either in October or whatever. It's appropriate. Whatever timeline you need for a public hearing. So I'm requesting that to the chairman. We can go around for a consensus. I'll start. I usually finish. And that is, until I know what it's going to cost us, our taxpayers, how we're going to pay for it, we don't have the slightest guess. So I'm not ready to move it forward today. Maybe we would be ready in a couple months. Hopefully. But I certainly can't set a date today myself. Supervisor Wells? I would move forward with the, with Mr. Supervisor Jewell's motion. Supervisor Dunn? I'll move forward sometime in late October or November. My preference is the end of October or early November, early November. Supervisor? Well, you know where I am. Jewell? Yes, please. Supervisor Liero? I would make a comment. I would make a couple comments about what's just been said a couple of months ago. As we looked at Mr. Bolhofer's slide about the debt service going up, you're kind of climbing up until about 2030 or so. You're talking about a decision, Mr. Chair, about paying for it. But that's a year by year. That's not just one decision. That's a yearly decision. That's not one decision. It's five decisions. It's ten decisions. So I don't know that I can sit down and sit there and give a constituent five consecutive decisions that I'm going to make in the future based upon the snapshot of today. So I just think we need to move it forward. I concur with the motion to move it forward. Let the public weigh in on it and see what they say. Supervisor McRae? I think I need, like you, I'm in agreement with you that no, I think we need better data. But I'm willing to hear a public hearing. Let's see what the view. I'm willing to go ahead with the public hearing. I think there is a need. What I would like to see is information back on value engineering. And I would like for some revenue. We talked about the difference if we made a policy change. I'd like to see what that looks like. And maybe any other alternatives, Mr. Bolhofer, that you might be able to put forward. The date would be, the later date would be October 23rd if you were asked for the late date in October. 23rd? 23rd. So we need to adjourn and give Planning Commission their room. But we need to work as hard as we can to understand our finances and our projections. I think we all agree we need to determine what we can. And let's not forget about the lobbying date. So they will choose, not me, the three, the three that are going to be the most important to us. And the three of our representatives will tell us when they're available. Mr. Chairman, thank you for. Mr. Chairman, before you adjourn us. The lobbying, the legislative agenda, I believe all of that got sent to Mr. Tibbs. Yes, you got some. It will be on the agenda next week. Yes. Thank you. Thank you.
