Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-10-08
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=299
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks. Now to the… Good evening. We will call the Board of Supervisors Wednesday, October 8th, 2025 meeting to order. Um, and we are fortunate this evening to have Pastor Samuel Rogers from the Hopewell Valley House churches will offer the invocation. Thank you sir, for being here. Thank you. Please join me in a word of prayer as we open this evening. Okay. Almighty God, from whom we have received all things, we dedicate this time and this meeting to the service of this community. We acknowledge that the resources, the land, and the people of Frederick County are a sacred trust from you. We ask that you grant a blessing upon every individual here, the leaders entrusted with the weight of decision and the citizens who give voice to the needs of the people. May your spirit of wisdom settle upon these proceedings, ensuring that all deliberations are carried out with gravity, clear thought, and sincere commitment to the welfare of our entire community. Keep our focus sharp and dedicated to the long-term prosperity of the county. May the decisions made today and in the days ahead build a stable and hopeful future for generations to come. In Jesus' name we ask and receive all these things. Amen. Amen. Thank you, sir. Vice Chairman Wells. If you could stand and salute the flag, please. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. The first order of business is the adoption of a law, the right to keep the freedom of speech and the right to the public and the of the agenda? How would the board like to handle the adoption of the agenda? Madam Chairman, I would move for the adoption of the agenda as presented. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. And properly seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Second item of business is the citizen comment section and this is for agenda items that are not the subject of a public hearing. If you wish to speak to the board regarding the next era energy transmission Woodside substation which was heard at the recent planning commission meeting, please be advised that the item is not on the board agenda this evening. You may address the board on this topic during the second citizen comments near the end of the meeting which is available for non-agenda items. Next. Are there any citizens, Mrs. Phillips? No, Madam Chair. No one has signed up. Thank you. Is there anyone who wishes to address the board under the citizen comment period with non-agenda items? Excuse me, agenda items? No. Seeing none, we will close the citizen comment period. Next item of business is the consent agenda. How would the board like to handle that? Madam Chairman, I would move that we approve the consent agenda as presented. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. And properly seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. That'll take us to Board of Supervisor comments. Are there any Board of Supervisor comments? Seeing none, we will move on to the next item which will be county officials and the first item on our agenda is the appointment of Andrew R. Fox as county attorney. Madam Chairman, I would move that the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County appoint Andrew R. Fox as the county attorney. With his employment to begin on October the 20th, 2025. You've heard Supervisor Wells' motion. Is there a second? Second. Roll call vote. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Excuse me. Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. And the Chair votes aye. And we are privileged this evening to have Mr. Fox in our audience. And we thank you, sir, for making the and the travel to come this evening and would appreciate hearing from you. Absolutely. Thank you, Madam Chairwoman. The pleasure is all mine. Feel free to start the three minute clock. I'm just very grateful for the opportunity. It's been a humbling experience, especially seeing many folks that I've interacted with in my long career of public service and government service kind of come to bat for me and hopefully assure you that I'm capable but also pleasant to work with. Funny, even at times, especially when moments when levity is a value. So I look forward to getting to know the members of the community. Doing a lot of listening and learning, working with the county administrator and staff and becoming part of that culture, becoming part of the community here and just a very wonderful place and I'll be very privileged to be part of it. Again, thank you very much for your vote of confidence and I will work very hard to make sure that you are happy with it. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir, for being with us this evening and we look forward to you to being our new county attorney. Thank you very much. It's my pleasure. Thank you, sir. Welcome to Frederick County. Thank you. Our next item of business is the appointment to fill the board's vacant Gainsborough seat. Madam Chairman, I move that the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County appoint Jacky Breslin, the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County, and the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County. I move that the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County appoint Jacky Breslin, the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County, and the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County. I move that the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County appoint Jacky Breslin, the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County. Supervisor Jewell. I. Supervisor Dunn. I. Vice Chairman Wells. I. Supervisor Lero. I. And the Chair votes aye. The motion carries. At this time, we will ask Supervisors Jewell and Supervisors Dunn to recuse. They will be recusing themselves. All right. Very well. Yes, sir. Supervisor, I mean, Vice Chair Wells. Excuse me. All right. Madam Chairman, I move to, I move for the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County to appoint John Jewell to fill the seat of Chairman-at-Large until the special election of the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County. The second on November the 3rd, 2026, effective October the 15th, 2025, which will allow him time to resign his currently elected seat and be sworn in as Chairman. You've heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And properly seconded. Supervisor Lero. I. Vice Chairman Wells. I. And the Chair votes aye. The motion carries. Mr. Bolhoffer. Would you share some remarks on the timeline of how we will handle this process? I would hand it down, but there's no seats down. I'll just short up and thank you. Thank you. Gentlemen, the motion. And the appointment was made to Supervisor Jewell. So, and we will look at the timeframe with the special election. And I'm going to turn that over to Mr. Bolhoffer to walk us through what that process looks like. Thank you. Because of the 45-day time limit, we would have to take an action tonight to meet all the timeframes. And the one action tonight. We would need from the board, which could be done with a consensus, is to allow us to start receiving applications for that seat on October 16th. And that would run through October 30th. Part of this process, we would have to have a proof of a special election on October 22nd at the regular meeting. We'd have to have a special meeting on November 5th to hear from the applicants, which is required by state law. And that would give us the seven days where we make. The appointment on November 12th. And we brought it up tonight because with 45 days, we couldn't afford to wait further for that. Okay. Thank you. Are there any questions for Mr. Bolhoffer? Hearing none, we can have a consensus on this vote. If everyone is in favor of the suggested timeline, as Mr. Bolhoffer just informed us. We have my vote. All in favor? Move forward. Aye. Any opposed? Okay. We have a consensus, sir. So, if you would move. Forward with the necessary steps. We appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you, sir. All right. The next item of business is the appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. The first item of business is the Conservation Easement Authority, for which I set is your liaison. And Mrs. Farrell is eligible and willing to serve another term. So, I would make a motion. Second. Second. And we have a second. We can take a consensus vote on this if that suits. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The next item is the Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee. Supervisor Jewell? Madam Chairman, I would like to make the recommendation for Mr. Baker to serve again on the Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee. Okay. He's done a wonderful job. Wonderful. Is there a second? Second. Second. And properly seconded by Supervisor Lero. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. That'll take us then to the Transportation Committee business, item number 10A. And Supervisor Jewell is serving as the chairman of that committee. Supervisor Jewell? Madam Chair, I would like to make the motion. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. motion to approve the recommendations from the committee on Exit 317, an interchange project. Okay. We have motion and a second by Supervisor Lero, who also serves on the Transportation Committee. And the committee recommended staff to convert Welltown Road as we get into the process of the diverging diamond and Crown Lane into one-way pair as an alternative. to address the intersection improvements from the diverging diamond intersections that had previously been submitted. Are there any questions for Mr. Bishop regarding this item? Okay hearing and seeing none we have a motion and properly second. We will take a roll call vote on this. All right Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Vice Chairman Wells. Aye. Supervisor Lero. Aye. And the chair votes aye. Next item Supervisor Jewell. Madam Chair, again the Transportation Committee met and raised an update on cost on projects. Resulted in making some recommendations for canceling a couple things, Emberley Way, pedestrian upgrades and Valley Mill. The committee recommended approval of this and we appreciate the work that staff and VDOT has done on this project. So that's the recommendation that we approve this. All right, so is that your motion? That's my motion. Second. And a second by Supervisor Lero. Is there any discussion, any questions for Mr. Bishop? Madam Chairman I don't have any questions but the Transportation Committee I think has done a great job and certainly our transportation group here that works in Frederick County has done great. These are two wonderful projects. They really are. They will make a huge difference. If we can ever get to the finish line, I know we've talked about this, but you enter office, and I have started working on many of these projects, and I will not see them come to fruition before my term ends. It just seems to take, of all my greatest frustration, it's how long it takes us to get to the finish line. It does. At any rate, but they will be a blessing once they are finished. So we have a motion and a second, and again, all in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Thank you all so much, and Mr. Bishop, thank you for your work on all of these projects. All right. That will take us then to the public hearing item, which is the ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code Chapter 155, Taxes and Taxes. This is the organization article, let's see, 14, Transient Occupancy Tax, definitions. You had the ordinance in your packet. I know that Mrs. Seibert is here as our Commissioner of Revenue. If there are any questions, if the board does not have any questions, we will move on to the public hearing. Any questions? All right. Thank you. Is there anyone who wishes to speak to this? If not, we will move on to the public hearing item, which is the ordinance amendment, which essentially would align with the state code. Okay. Seeing no one, we will close the public hearing. How would the board like to handle the request? Madam Chair, I'd like to make a motion that we approve the ordinance to amend Frederick County Code Chapter 155, Taxation, Article 14, Transient Occupancy Tax, and 155.50, definition. I move that the board approve the ordinance on the basis of the conditions, 155.50, and 154, Collections and Trust. Thank you, sir. We have a motion on the floor. Is there a second? Second. And properly seconded by Vice Chairman Wells. We will do a roll call on this. Supervisor Leroy. Aye. Vice Chairman Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. And the chair votes aye. That will take us then to board liaison reports. Yes. Madam, we don't skip 12 and 13. That's correct. In the near future, I've been assigned to be chairman of public safety. So just an announcement to those folks out there. There won't be a meeting in public safety until January. And I have listed three topics that I think are very important. The new fire station. The. Work that we're doing with the first responders radio system that's going in. And also the blue line, which was the cameras in the school board areas. So in the school district areas. So those are three of the main things my committee will be meeting on starting in January. Just want to let people know what's going on. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Leroy. Madam Chair. Thank you. The planning commission. Met last Wednesday, October 1st. They took up a code section 2232 review number 01-25 for next era energy transmission Woodside substation. That was submitted to review a 72 acre site of which approximately 35.60 acres will be disturbed. The property is 7.1 miles north of city Winchester along interstate 81 between Carter machinery and the Fruity Hill properties. And is identified by property identification. Number 33-12-24. And 33-a-88 in the Stonewall Magisterial District. Once again, that was debated last Wednesday, the 1st. There were 11 planning commissioners in attendance. There were two absent of the 11 that were in attendance. Eight to three. By an eight to three vote. They voted that the. Review 01-25. Was in substantial accord with the comprehensive plan. And that's all I have. Thank you, sir. Very much. Are there any other liaison reports? Thank you. All right. Hearing none, we will move on then to citizen comments. Ms. Phillips, would you kindly call the speakers to the podium, please? David Dixon. If you will come forward to the podium and you state. Your name and Magisterial District. And you have three minutes to speak. Thank you. I am David Dixon with Stonewall District. And I am here fighting for a family. And I am here fighting for a family. I am the deputy of the school district. And I am here fighting for a family. I am the deputy of the school district. And I am here fighting for a family. in our farms which are being put last on a priority list this is the gateway to shut in my farm down right now as we speak when I'm on the tractor when it's raining under the power lines feeding the cows I will get electrocuted I can feel it and with that new substation they'll be putting in more power lines more power it's the gateway and and I welcome y'all to come on out and verify my claims what kind of people that are representing the people of Frederick County will put the people of Loudoun County before their own I know our County is better than this it's time we go back to our roots we are the apple harvesting capital of the world think about where we're headed if you moved here out of Loudoun County I would expect this out of the county but if your roots are from here think of our people you're you're representing the county and we don't want to throw the county away like we did with the quarry we won't back down without a fight this county will unite and stand together you as a community against the monopoly of projects the power companies are tied to and stop them in their tracks we ask the people of Frederick County ask them to extend the deadline for 60 days to have the county lawyer to determine if if there can be a case made to protect the residents with property owners thank you thank you thank you Teresa Ghezori Teresa Ghezori Teresa Ghezori hi my name is Teresa Ghezori I currently live in Loudoun County we used to vacation and have a vacation home out in Shawnee so I'm very familiar with the area I'm a I'm speaking out in opposition to the proposal for the Woodside substation it is not in substantial accord with Frederick County's comprehensive plan the purpose of the comprehensive plan is to promote a harmonious development of the territory that best promotes the health safety morals order convenience prosperity and general welfare of the inhabitants a 500 KV transmission substation 40 feet from existing homes does not meet this criteria in fact it degrades the health and safety of the residential community and degrades the safety and safety degrades the general welfare and prosperity. The Clearbrook area has been zoned agricultural and residential for generations. There is no existing industrial landscape. This is an empty field. The proposed structures are 40 to 50 feet taller than the existing lines, most of which are hidden behind mature trees. The substation such as this will be an eyesore and a blight on the community. The lights, noise, and EMFs radiating from the site will be a clear detriment to the health welfare of the residents. It will destroy the equity the adjacent homeowners have in their properties, most of which will not be sellable to any other resident. Secondly, there is no mitigation for current residential properties. Just because in 2023 an area was shaded blue for future light industrial use out to 2035, it doesn't mean a 30-acre, substation is in accord with the plan two years later. This will gut the home equity of every property owner in that neighborhood now. It severely degrades the quality of life for those residents. The original intent of the existing rural preservation tract for the Ridgeway Estates subdivision was for agricultural purposes or to preserve natural and environmental features residents and homeowners in this area enjoy. Number three, next year's proposal is an industrial use, but it is not a solution. The proposed plan is not a solution. The proposed plan is not a solution. If the timing is right, the plan will reduce numbers and reduce Comm Thr ming, and new A Aviation� benefit for coastal residents will be a health benefit and less at the cost of Africa's Hu a natural resource. Place plan will ensure a solid future of low- então energykehr but does not produce jobs. It's an industrial use, but not a light industrial business, and it certainly cannot be described as a light industrial use either. This proposal would remove valuable real estate envisioned for businesses that create jobs from ever serving that purpose. Once this property becomes a 500 kV transmission substation, it will never be reclaimed. I urge the Board of Supervisors to vote no or else, and alternatively, to extend the review period for 60 days to do a thorough review to see if the Frederick County attorney can prepare a case for denial of substantial accord with the comprehensive plan. Thank you. Thank you. Alfred Giozzori. Thank you. I will. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Alfred Giozzori. I live in Lovesville, Virginia. I lived there since 1979. I have a question. What is it that Nextera is asking the Board to approve? What, a 500 kV line or more? As I hand it to the clerk, a transmission substation needs bays. A 500 kV line needs at least one bay. Two kV lines, 500 kV lines, needs two bays. So you have at least two bays here. You also have a 138 kV line. I have no idea what that requires. You will also have a 765. I don't know how many bays that takes. Two? More? Are we up to four? Are we up to six? The application does not say what the ultimate build-out of this transmission substation will be. The application is incomplete. It ought to be denied. Would all doers, the board, you don't know what you're approving. They could add any number of transmission lines because they don't need your approval anymore. The substation is there. Approval of the transmission line is with the state corporation commission. If they say the 765 goes there, and it will, you have no say in that. And if they come up with additional 500 kV lines, again, you have no say in it. Once you make the decision, you have to make this decision, it's final. For what? For 50 years? You, we have heard many witnesses testify to the harm. You have homes next to these lines. Their property value goes from say half a million to zero. That's real economic harm. And to provide service on a transmission lines for which they do not get any electricity. All of which is transmission. It's considered a great success. So, if I take a look at the system, it's a really good example of the process. It's simple. It's simple. It's a good example. It's a good example. It's a good example of to the data centers in Loudoun County. This is not a distribution substation. It's a transmission substation. And they don't peel off a little energy in Frederick County. 100% goes to my county. And I'm finding it down there too. Mr. Whiteacre was right. He said no to the application because it causes harm. The commission, planning commission should have voted no because it causes harm. The harm is demonstrable. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Jennifer Smith. I'm Jennifer Smith from the Stonewall District. If you look behind me, you'll see a lot of us. This is a good portion of our neighborhood. These are the people that will be impacted if you all approve this. We lose value in our homes. This is the face of whose houses you ruin when you approve this. This is not for Frederick County. It has been said over and over again. They've pushed it. They've published it in the Loudoun County Times. This substation is a small picture and a bigger project for data centers. That's why. That's it. It's not to benefit Frederick County. They're gonna, they put it to the county that way. That's what they said to stabilize the grid. The grid isn't unstable. It's only unstable because of the amount of data centers they plan to build and that are currently built. Why should we lose our homes, our value, our community? Why can't a business, a data center come up with their own way to power their own centers instead of pulling from us? Why can't a business, a data center come up with their own way to power their own centers instead of pulling from us and ruining our community, our rural community? It is beautiful where we live. And to come in and allow them to buy that property without even having anything said to us prior to the purchase being closed on is wild to me that we do not get to say prior to that. Then to go to the meeting and find out that there can't be another meeting to vote on it because it is only a certain time period that's gonna be automatically canceled. That's gonna be automatically canceled. Stuff shouldn't slide by. People who live in this community like that, we shouldn't find out last minute. That substation is massive. It's huge. And they flat out said they weren't very clear. They kind of hem-hauled around it, but weren't very clear about how big it will get or how much more land they will take. It's not just our community. There are people, once this substation goes in, that will lose their homes to those lines that will be connected to it all over this county. That is unacceptable. How is that the betterment of this community? To take our homes, our property, the places we've lived for 15 years, for that. For another community, for businesses. That's what we're gonna do here is take away from the residents that make this community, for businesses, for Loudoun County. That is not what you should vote for. That is ruining our community. That's not how small town people stick together. Rural communities, this is my community. These are my neighbors. Some people just moved in. They have invested a lot of money in those homes. You cannot take that away from any of us. Thank you. Thank you. Joe Crane. Joe Crane, Gainesboro. Madam Chair, board members, you chose the wrong guy. Hey, I respect your decision, and I wish Jason all the best. I give him 100% of my support as I do the board, and as I have in the last several years that you've heard me and have seen me. And so you have my bio. You could blackmail me with that. You've got my contact information, anything I could do for the board, for the county at large, please get ahold of me. And again, congratulations to Jason, and wish the board the best. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Ms. devotion. Earlier on in that comment, I didastic reporting us about what used to be the Army Day of the purpose of Airよし, also KNOW G Ultra would never2031 trail facing up against their 에�nd shouldn'tprendary I would just want to be upfront on what our Tampa Bay just about that's the maintaints 40 years had to come. name is Jeshua Branch for clarity and I'm from Stonewall District. I'm here to represent my family. This is my wife and we have four children. We currently live in Ridgeway Estate so I'm also representing them but obviously not the only one tonight. Our homes are on Jolene Drive in Clearbrook. We are here to speak out against the proposed 30-acre substation that's supposed to be built literally right beside our homes. We've all come to communicate that there is an injustice taking place. The injustice is that our elected representatives appear to have the interest of a private non-local company over the interest of their own constituents. After talking to all of our neighbors there's one common thing that we have all come to believe. The ones who are supposed that have been elected to represent the people of our city are the ones who are supposed to be built literally right beside our homes. People do not care about us. To our knowledge no one is defending us. No one is mediating for us. No one is fighting for us. No one cares it appears to care about our interests. So I think that there's a danger. There's a danger of coming into your offices and having your meetings and staying behind closed doors and the danger is that you become separated from the people who are supposed to be there and you lose sight of what they value most. And I don't mean to conjecture but there's obviously been some sort of meetings leading into this whether from the power companies or from other representatives but either power presentations have been given or papers have been slid across the table to show how much revenue will be created for the county. They show what can be gained but have you considered what will be lost. The last thing we've seen in our own communities is the lack of money and the lack of support from business leaders. If you put money into this one-star building and you join a party you will lose money. But the lives and the lifestyle of the people are what will be lost. We are the ones who will lose. So there is a grave danger when elected representatives cherish money more than the lives of the people that they are called to protect and more than the people that they're called to serve. So we are here to communicate to you. We do not want this 30-acres substation being built beside our homes. We are the ones who stand to lose the most. We are the ones who stand to lose the most. We are the ones who stand to lose the most. We are the lives We will lose our way of life. The rural nature of our neighborhood will be robbed of its beauty. Our children will lose. Where will they play? Our long-term health may be impaired, and the reproductive organs of our children may be damaged. We also stand to lose tens of thousands of dollars, and perhaps more, in the equity of our harms that we've worked hard to get and to earn and to improve our own lives. So we're asking you guys today that you will protect us. We're asking that you will tell the power company that they cannot have your vote until they take adequate measures to mitigate our damages. There's been a lot of talk of a comprehensive plan. How about a comprehensive plan to protect our people? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And the Ridgway Estates community. I urge each of you to consider, would you accept a project like this in your own backyard, near your own family? I respectfully request that the Board of Supervisors reconsider this decision and consider the serious, long-term consequences this project could have on our community. I am fully prepared to seek legal counsel to protect my home, my family. and my neighbors from the adverse effects of this development. Thank you for your time and thoughtful consideration. Shane Robine. Good evening. My name is Shane Robine. I live in the Stonewall District as well. I am the current resident at the adjacent property at Jolene Drive. Today I'm expressing my concerns and regards for the proposed Woodside substation recently approved by the Planning Commission. I attended the meeting on October 1st and I was shocked that the commissioners voted to approve the proposal. It felt as though their decisions were rushed. Some of the commissioners appeared hesitant to vote at that time, while others seemed to have already made their mind up from the beginning. One commissioner even mentioned about bringing money to first. I was very surprised that I was able to get that proposal. It was very Frederick County, rather than protecting the well-being and safety of the current residents. The proposed substation would sit 40 feet from my yard, with nothing more than a few shrubs to block the view. These uninsulated 500 kV lines do emit electromagnetic fields that can cause cancer and other health issues. Beyond the visual impact, I'm deeply concerned about the potential health effects on my family and the other homeowners close to me. Every one of my neighbors on Jolene Drive chose to live here for peace and the rural charm that Frederick County has to offer, and we will not have peace if this substation is built. There is also serious concerns about the property values. It's reasonable to expect that the property values in this area will drop significantly if the substation is approved and built here. When it comes to the property values, I'm very concerned about the property values in this area. I'm concerned about the property values in this area. I'm concerned about the property values in this area. When it comes time to sell, who would want to buy a home located next to a 36-acre substation? Based on the Commissioner's decisions, I may be forced to sell my home just to protect my family. What benefit will this substation truly have for Frederick County? Are those benefits so great that the voices and safety of the Jolene Drive Ridgeway Estates community no longer matter? Would you allow something like this to happen near your home? Would you allow something like this to happen near your home? Would you allow something like this to happen near your home? Or your families? It just seems wrong that NextEra can do this. I respectfully request that the Board of Supervisors reconsider their decision and consider the serious long-term consequences to protect the consequences this project will have in our community. I'm prepared to seek legal counsel to protect my property, my family, and my neighbors from adverse effects of this development. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Jennifer Amps. Good evening. My name is Jennifer Amps. Do you mind if I just share with a couple pictures with you? Those pictures are taken from my back porch. And what you're looking at right now is the field that will be impacted. I'm a resident of Jolene Drive. I live directly adjacent to the proposed development site. In fact, my backyard backs up directly to the field that's about to be destroyed. I spoke last week in the same room to individuals that weren't particularly interested, some of them anyways, weren't really interested in hearing what the community had to say. At that meeting, I chose to share my feelings. And my concerns. I apologize if I'm repeating some from last week, but I think it's important. It's important to me. The demolition of this green space is beautiful. The subsequent construction will have a traumatizing effect on this community. The community that directly surrounds this area is full of young children, senior citizens, and everyone in between. Our neighborhood is vibrant, and it's just a beautiful place to live. I'm proud of that. Thank you. My name is Jennifer Amps. I'm a resident of Jolene Drive. I live directly adjacent to the proposed development site. I'm proud of that. Thank you. close-knit community with families who enjoy the open space and the peaceful environment. The proposed development threatens this quality of life and raises serious concerns about the potential consequences for our residents. It's not uncommon for you to find our neighbors outside walking down the street enjoying the view or our kids running around in the yard playing together. It's one of my favorite views right there. One of my biggest concerns is the potential impact on the health and well-being of my family, my friends, my neighbors, and the broader community. We're asking for you to consider the potential mental, physical, and emotional consequences of this project. A comprehensive plan for the county should prioritize the health and well-being of its citizens. The health and well-being of our community should be number one on your list when taking into consideration the comprehensive plan, comprehensive plan for the county. How do you have a comprehensive plan without the well-being of its citizens at the heart, at the very heart? Furthermore, I'm particularly worried about the potential for increased noise pollution from construction and operation. With no noise ordinance, the overpowering and deafening noise of rock getting beaten to dust and blasting will start before daylight and not end until well into the late evening hours. The impact of that alone on our kids and pets is devastating. I mentioned last week that my husband and I have worked our tails off for what we have. I'm so proud of us. I'm so proud of him. For the house that we have, the work that we've put in it to make it a home. Who is considering the potential damage to our home's foundation, the septic systems and wells? What will this do to the value? It's absolutely devastating. You're essentially demolishing a home. You're essentially demolishing a home. You're essentially demolishing a portion of the community. Devastation. Can I finish? I'm sorry. Finally, I would like to address the potential conflict of interest regarding the sale of this land. I haven't heard many people mention this. The involvement of individuals and how they're connected to this planning process, it's a bit concerning. I urge this body to consider the ethical implications of this project and ensure transparency throughout the decision-making process. I implore you to reconsider this project and prioritize the preservation of our community and the quality of its lives. Thank you. I urge you to carefully consider the long-term health and environmental impacts of this project before moving forward My family the children of Jolene Drive this direct community This amazing community are pleading for your help Thank you. Thank you I'm having trouble reading this. Is it Peter Hyatt? Yeah I Need to speak to the Community My name is Peter Hart and I'm part of the Stonewall district. I live on Jolene Homelock.com is a security system developed to protect homeowners homeowners from equity theft With real-time alerts for homeowners homeowners pay for this service to gain peace of mind and protect their most valuable asset either property fraud or physical threat Homelock.com Cannot protect us From this type of equity threat. It's a major equity threat in our lives People have worked all their lives to build up equity in their homes and it's going to be vaporized away by the lack of consideration and the lack of empathy that next era in this government body in this community has had if It goes forth as a planning the board of Planners have voted for the other night if this board of supervisors does not override the Planning Commission's recommendation The 30 acre substation will go in an entire neighborhood of homes will significantly depreciate value homeowners and families will have their home equity instantly vaporized while a private business gets more filthy rich next era energy is worth a hundred and sixty nine billion dollars of October of 2025 with an enterprise value of two hundred and sixty billion dollars in a net worth of at net assets worth forty forty eight point four nine billion dollars If this terrible act is allowed to proceed as it is now it will be a blatant exploitation of Frederick County citizens Blatant exploitation is the obvious and unashamed act of taking advantage of another person or people for one's own gain at The last board of planners meeting in front of all the citizens in front of all the families who live here on Joe on Joleen Drive the next era representative unashamedly Claimed the next era had worked with the families of Jolene Drive When she said that I heard a bunch of no's I Live in Jolene Drive right smack in the middle of this with my backyard facing to the set where the substation will be Nobody has talked with us. All we received is one little letter From you letting us know that there is a meeting if they are Misrepresenting something that simple how what else are they misrepresenting? And not only are they misrepresenting? To us but they're misrepresenting to you Because the board of planters a planner has bought everything that young lady said My time up already, yes, sir, if you could please So anyway, I'm asking that there is extension of time so we can really thoroughly thoroughly look at this and here's the thing Right now we have win-lose situation Isn't there anybody in this county that can? Craft a deal that where everybody wins because right now you have a big winner Which is the multi-billion dollar company and you have a bunch of losers, which are the homeowners? We don't want to be losers And it's in your power to change that And I want to leave you with one more thing and I promise I'll go But we opened up tonight with a prayer Which I thought was lovely But seeing how you brought up the prayer out of the Bible Because the man prayed in the name of Jesus in the book of James it says if anyone And that includes you Then knows to do good or do what they should do and they don't do it. It is sin to them Joseph Emmanuel My name is Joseph Emmanuel from the Stonewall district and this guy is still all my thunder. He said everything I was gonna say But yeah, you opened up with a prayer this morning so Taxation is theft taxation is extortion. So if you're accepting all these millions or billions of dollars You're essentially pointing guns to people's heads and stealing it for your own personal gain and that is a sin And that's all I can say about that So I'm going to ask you to pray for me And that's all I really want to say about that. Thank you Janice Dixon I'm Janice Dixon and I live in the Stonewall district and I'm here to oppose the Woodside Substation tonight because basically there's no purpose for another substation. We already have one in Clearbrook It's not substantial accord to with the comprehensive plan Because the Virginia Code calls for the drafted plan to be the purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated development of the property Which I would think the property should be promote the best health and safety and provide Order and convenience for the general welfare of the citizens of the Frederick County and property owners But a substation 40 feet from your home does not meet that criteria so We elected you as our officers to help out with this with ever any matters and I just don't understand why they would you would want to disrupt people's lives for this company that I don't we they haven't advertised anything To nobody knows anything about it until after the meet and they advertised the meeting the same day as the meeting So they are trying to seems to trying to sneaky hide and something with this company the next air energy So basically, I don't know why we don't we haven't gotten any kind of references on them And I didn't realize I didn't do any homework on it, but I they making that much money We haven't seen any kind of advertising or anything on this substation But what is Frederick County getting paid if next air energy is getting paid all this money for their building? What are we getting out of it? so I don't know how We elect you to protect us and the citizens and make sure you guide the right procedures and basically, I don't know why you would overstep the people that put you in office to For a company that we don't even know anything about so basically The woodside substation it would cut the home equity in every property in the neighborhood And the substation does not benefit the neighborhood and it's an industrial use which It won't give any kind of jobs to the neighborhood. It won't do anything because We don't know anything about it. It's a out-of-state company so we don't know anything about it. It's an out-of-state company so and there's also no 500 KW substation in the Frederick County plan because we already got one in Clearbrook. We don't need another So I'm asking if you wouldn't mind give me another 60 days because I'm interested in contacting the lawyer that possibly check into the matter Because I know the substation is going to tower that is going to power the towers and where the towers going the towers aren't going to benefit us either so basically I'm asking to to oppose this and Treat treat others as you'd want to be treated you wouldn't want it in your backyard Madam chair that is the end of the list the end of the list. Is there anyone who didn't sign up who wishes to speak? I'm sorry. My name is Leslie Spencer. I live in Gainesboro. Thank you. I Have been reading the knee lip survey and 99% of the residents said that they wanted to save our farmland I just wanted to let you know We all agree that power reliability is essential. The question isn't whether Frederick County needs more capacity We know we will grow and they're all there are coming to be alternatives in the next five years The land west of i-81 was designed for business recruitment that needed energy not to become a landmark for our regional energy Transmission Placing a substation here would be like putting a landfill at your front door Everyone understands the need but everyone also knows it doesn't belong there The goal is balanced reliable energy and a prosperous attractive gateway gateway If we lose one of our power plants we will lose our energy We will lose our energy We will lose our energy We will lose our energy We will lose our energy We will lose our electricity We will lose our natural energy We will lose our energy We will lose our energy And we've waited a long time for one to get the other we failed the plan itself We will be back here again at square one asking our community to develop more land, which means less farmland and Trees to recover the highways jobs. This corridor was meant to host beautifully Our residents could travel an upscale new collector road west of i-81 noise, light pollution, and even heavy commercial trucks, leading to a roundabout planned exactly on that spot, framed by trees and professional campuses to the north and south. This is how our people will arrive at work each day, through a landscape that reflects who we are and how we value our people. Meanwhile, Interstate 81 will remain the major gateway, the first view thousands of travelers and potential investors have of Virginia. The view from 81 after our welcome sign could be of that lovely corridor area instead. The NELIP says, as these area are highly visible, building and site design should be of high quality to ensure that these areas put forth an attractive view for both residents and visitors. And first impressions often set the tone for a visitor's experience. And the great majority of travelers arrive in Frederick County through its roadways, enhancing the aesthetics and traffic flow of these corridors, will improve visitor impression and will benefit the quality of life for residents. That's from our comprehensive plan. Both are working together to define that entrance corridor beautifully. The proposed substation undermines that vision. It is not in accordance with our comprehensive plan, and we have both the rights and the responsibility to defend the integrity of that plan that we built to protect this West Side Gateway and the promise it holds for Frederick County's future. Thank you very much. Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? Yes, sir. Good evening. Please stay seated. My name is Doug Madigan. Thank you. I live at 343. I want to thank you all for coming out here tonight. I was one of the first to build there. Thank you. There was only three houses, and I've seen my neighbors move in. I put a lot of work into my house. There still am. Please, you're from the Stonewall District, have been for years. I have for 45. Please, listen to them. You're taking our holds in our area. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? Okay, we will close the citizen comment period. We will move to Board of Supervisor comments. And if I may, I appreciate all the citizens who have come out this evening to speak to this topic. Of course, I've listened to each and every one of you, and I know that I've spoken with Mr. Pearson in the planning department, and we also have had various other. Others who have verified to see that the request meets the comprehensive plan. One of the concerns I have this evening is in hearing the residents speak, is that it appears that there wasn't any communication with you as homeowners from NextEra. And Mr. Pearson, are you knowledgeable of any of this? I don't know. I'm not sure I've heard any information. As it relates to whether NextEra reached out or not? Yes, sir. I don't think that they provided any notice to any of the adjoining property owners. They're not required to by state code. That's the county's responsibility. So we sent the adjoiner letters that the residents referenced to let them know of the public hearing action at the planning commission. I would say it's best practice for private companies to make the residents around them aware of something they're proposing. But it's not a statutory action. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Any other regulatory requirement? In the timeframe that we have to work with, would it be possible to ask this company to conduct a meeting with these citizens and explain what their proposal entails? We could certainly request that they provide such an informational meeting to the nearby residents. I think in listening to what I've heard, I think that the city is very concerned about what our citizens have said this evening and not receiving that information that for them to represent their project to our citizens, I do believe is in the best interest of the citizens of Frederick County. So if there is a step that we can take, I certainly would like to see it done. I'll make that request of NextEra tomorrow. All right, sir. Is there a timeline that we're working with? Or if we have the meeting and we're not able to do that, what's the timeline? So you're saying that we're working with the city to have a meeting and go through the proper channels so that these people are clearly informed of the whole of this project? When you're asking about the timeline, to what end are you asking about the timeline? Is that as it relates to this body taking a decision to overturn the planning committee's decision? Yes. And I've heard the citizens ask for a 60-day window so that we clearly could understand the whole of the project. Yeah. So the citizens are probably reading the state code legislation regarding the 2232 legal status of the plan, which grants the board the ability to extend the 60-day timeline that the planning commission has to review it. It's not super pertinent here because the planning commission already acted. The board's timeframe for overruling the planning commission is not abundantly clear in statute. There's a 10-day appeal period for when the applicant is agreed. Okay. And then all it says about the board's ability to overrule is that you have the ability and it requires a majority of your membership in order to overrule the planning commission. We contacted outside counsel for the residents here. We did not contact Mr. Fox. He was not. I know he's here today, but don't go up to him after this thinking that he is the attorney who gave his advice on this. But we contacted outside counsel, Steve Brillia, who you all know, and reviewed with him. What would be a reasonable timeframe for the board to consider as their opportunity to act. And he suggested that 30 days is typically what applies to all land use actions. So if you all approve a rezoning at a board meeting, you have 30 days before it really solidifies to where, you know, something could be overturned or an appeal period is valid for. And he said the same would be pertinent in this case. So that would take you out to November 4th, more than likely, if the board did want to take an action to overrule the planning commission. I think it would be important to have the informational meeting and as the citizens have requested a 60-day window, if that's possible. We can ask the county attorney if he thinks that 60 days is allowable under the ordinance or under the state code for when the board could still take an opportunity to overrule the planning commission. Does that make sense? Yes, sir. I do. And we can provide correspondence to the board as it relates to his answer on that. I think so. I do think it's important that we have all of the information. Yeah. That the citizens have been informed, which clearly it appears that they have not received any interaction with this company other than what staff has sent out to them to advise them and the impact that it would have on their homes. I know one of the things that you and I discussed was that with the comprehensive plan, it meets the criteria. Yes. And then the other thing is that the commission has a comprehensive plan in that the land is industrial and therefore could be used for this purpose. And not only did the planning commission look at it, but as you point out, the land attorney that we have employed in the interim and then also one other body. It was the staff's recommendation was that it was in substantial accord for the comprehensive plan for the reason you mentioned as well as others. Yes. And the county attorney was one of the other bodies. And then the planning commission is the third body that we discussed on the phone today as all arriving at a similar conclusion as it relates to that. And I respect all the work that has been done. But I think the important thing is that these citizens have an opportunity to understand the implications. The other thing that you and I spoke about today when we were discussing this issue was that while this may be an issue that we're not going to be able to address, but it's going to be an issue that we're going to have to address. And so while this may be in conformance with the comprehensive plan, the next step for this company if this moves forward would be a site plan that would need to be approved through the Frederick County Planning Department. Would you elaborate a little bit on that as well? Yeah, absolutely. Next year we'll have to prepare an engineered site plan that meets all of Frederick County ordinances. For those who read the concept plan in the 2232 submission, it's a very comprehensive plan. And it's a very comprehensive plan. The only two things that we have to do is to have it reviewed and then to have it made available to the public. So we will have to have it reviewed and then to have it made available to the public. But obviously, in the case of the 2232 submission, there were things wrong with that that won't comply with Frederick County ordinances that we will work with them on to ensure that they revise their plan to reflect that. For example, I think they were showing a 40-foot setback off of the back of the Jolene drive lots, and it's actually a 50-foot requirement. If they want to request any waivers or anything of that nature, it would have to be reviewed by the zoning administrator. And we've spoken internally about that. We do not intend to offer them any amount of leniency as it relates to the committee. So they can't know what's going on. capacity that we have under the ordinance unless they respond with substantial buffering well above and beyond what the ordinance requirements are but that will be probably a 2 to 3 month process other agencies including the dot fire marshal Department of Health and building inspections public works are party to that site plan review will provide comments on the engineered plans as they come in and help adjust them to meet all of the the relevant code requirements if it's meets the county code staff is obligated to sign it and then they can pull permits to begin construction and one last question in regard to that when you talk about the different agencies and their comments and listening to some of the comments and particularly mrs. Dom's when she spoke about the mental physical and health and well-being with the health comment the Health Department comment on those issues not as it relates to EMF or anything of that nature they will deal with the there's a couple of the Jolene drive lots whose septic systems overlap onto the parcel and are in easements and that will typically be the focus of the Health Department is just ensuring that the septic is set back from accordingly thank you sir all right those are my comments I I don't know if anyone else on the board would would would like to add on to that so on madam chair on your comments on Woodbine I'll make some other comments later this came up a week ago and we've had other situations where we had discussions one of the things I like to have police next era and others consider is if there is a significant situation where property owners have their true value deprived of me that's the way to say fine you're 54 my housezem partial-a goes in causes that property to decline in value not because the owner things has goingför my house true just causes that property to decline in value not because the owner things is killingάνers Mei But from a third-party perspective, trying to sell that house, and just making an example, you put it on a $300,000 house, they put it on the market, and the best they can get is $200,000. That's a $100,000 difference, that type of situation. Then the question becomes, as we go through as a board and deal with those projects, do we put on the table considerations so that the entity building compensates in some manner for the deprivation or the decline in value of the others? I mean, I'm not coming with an absolute yes or no, but I think that's something that ought to be considered as a cost of doing business if there's truly a negative impact on home values. So that's my comment on this. I'll make another comment when we get done with these, but if anybody else has any comments on this, we'll go ahead. Anyone else? All right. Yeah, I'd just like to second what you said. I'm glad we came out. Everybody came out and spoke. I made a lot of notes and listened very carefully. I'm in favor of looking at the 30-day, 60-day period to see what we can do. I think it's only fair to not only the citizens that are here, but to the board to hear a little bit more about this. So I think there's a timeline in there that we need to take a look at. So everybody has a good understanding of what's going on and how it's going to happen, if it happens. So I appreciate it. Madam Chair, just to confirm and to ensure that there's consensus from a board direction perspective, is the board seeking that we provide correspondence to you all confirming what the statutory allowance is for when you would have to act if you wanted to overturn the planning commission? And then the second follow-up item is requesting next era to hold a community informational meeting. Are those the two kind of homework assignments? I'm seeing none. So yes, sir, if you would, please. Got it. All right. One last comment. Yeah. It seems pretty obvious to me that if a company wants to create a situation that they need a power station and they're going to make money from that power station, that they're going to do everything they possibly can to satisfy the community and satisfy this board. So I'd like to see that happen. Not only transparency to the people, transparency to the board. So you might want to suggest that to them. Because the board does have the right to put the stop on it. And if they'd like to see it go ahead, I think now's the opportunity for them to do that. I completely understand your concerns and comments, Mr. Wells. The challenge with this application, as was, I think, well debated at the planning commission, is it's a by-right use in the RA zoning district. The only thing that was being reviewed by the planning commission was accord with the comprehensive plan. And so it's not a determination of the layout. You know, the setbacks or anything like that. And so we don't have the tools we're used to having, be them proffers or conditions from a conditional use permit, to try to shape the development as we do with rezonings. That being said, I'll certainly pass your comments along. Because I think that there is, assuming the board does not have a rule, the planning commission's actions, I think that there is, you know, distance we can gain during the site plan process and working with NextEra if we do move to that step to try to, you know, make that happen. So I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. So I'm happy to know that you, as the Rockikkeen, are supportive of the planning piece. When we had thejang made the decision to use a refurbishment issue, you kind ofPut Hallelujah stabilizing ahead of theuruover定heing thecarre? made the suggestion that. If you would want to make some changes and according to the regulation procedure as well, maybe we should put a termination margin of sex in the left revision. But I think it's that kind of transportation would also be appropriate is it's advancing the alreadyWA staff. if the next time acho that's going to be very much and chose not to is there anything That's the correct thinking. And what's your take? I would encourage the conditions of consideration there but I don't think the policy would be patterns visualist No, you're not an attorney, so I'm not going to put you into that situation. But that's the question I asked board members when you made a plaint request. And so without saying yay or nay, but at least to give everybody an opportunity, if a certain time frame happened, would they say legally there's nothing to do? Or is that in that 30- to 60-day time frame, which you have a legal opinion that 30 days is within the window, and it's unknown whether 45 days or 60 days is outside it? Yeah, I think as I began, the statute's open-ended as it relates to when you have to act. So we worked with the outside counsel to advise us on what might be an appropriate time frame because we kind of knew this was going to come up. And he suggested 30 days because that matches other state statutes for similar land use actions for when that is your time period to take action to overturn something. We'll go back to the drawing board and make sure, based on your all's comments and your willingness potentially for further discussion, to see if he can view it in any other manner from a legal perspective. I'm not holding out hope there because the ambiguity of the statute gives us nothing to work with, essentially. But I hope that answers your question, Mr. Young. And then one other follow-up. And that question is on the issue of compensation to adjacent landowners if there's truly an economic impact. Does that occur on a site plan issue? Is that something that's separate from what the board has to address? Is it not legal under the code? I mean, I don't know what the parameters are, so that's what I'm just asking. If I may interject, from a legal perspective, I had discussions with a lawyer. You know, when you're looking at this, you're looking at it from a legal perspective. Does this substantially meet the comp plan? And I would advise no discussions on any type of negotiations or such at this meeting because whichever way this ends up, either parties could sue, even the applicant. Any discussions on that would not be wise. Mr. Ballhopper, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I just want to be clear that if the three bodies that have reviewed this and have said that it meets the comprehensive plan, I am not in this position to override, I don't believe, what has already been decided, that it meets the criteria. But what is concerning to me is that the residents have not been informed of what the implications and have had a voice to make sure that their views are understood. And what the impacts are going to be to them. So I want to be clear here that we may not, as a board, have anything to stand on if our legal people have already said this meets that criteria. So I don't want to say too much more for the same reasons that Mr. Ballhopper has expressed. But I do believe that our citizens have the right to be informed. So thank you. That's all I have on that topic. Is there anything else? Anything else anyone else wishes to bring? Madam Chair. Yes, sir. We had, I think, 11 good quality candidates for supervisor. I've said this to other people I've talked to. I think Mr. Akins will do a good job. On the other hand, I think that all of you that wanted to run should run. This is nothing implying to Mr. Akins. And if he had lost, I would have said the same thing to him. I think that Gainesboro should choose whom they want to represent. So I can just encourage all of you to run. Make the case. This is who I am. This is what I want to do. And if you agree with me, vote for me. That's all. I wish there had been an election, but it isn't. So it is what it is. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Madam Chair, I just want to thank the board members for your confidence. I'm looking forward to the opportunity. Thank you. Thank you, sir. And again, thank everyone for coming out this evening. I really appreciate that. All right. No other board comments? Madam Chairman, I move we adjourn. Thank you. Vice Chairman Wells, is there a second? All in favor? Aye. Thank you. We are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
