Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2022-05-25
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=133
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God's name. and indivisible with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. Adoption of the agenda. How would the board like to handle that? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Second. Second. Motion and second to approve as presented. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. The agenda is adopted as presented. Citizen comments, agenda items not subject to public hearing. Did anyone sign up? Ms. Phillips? Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, we have eight persons signed up. Leslie Shottroff is the first name on the list. Welcome, ma'am. Hi. My name is Leslie Shottroff. I'm in the Opec District. This issue of the short-term lives, lodging at 242 Waynes Lane, needs to be resolved and hopefully this evening. The issue is becoming very personal between all the landowners. The landowners at 242 are giving us rules and regulations through text messages that are not nice. Two years ago, we had a total stranger from the main road walking his dog down Waynes Lane, sometimes late at night. The landowner of 242 contacted all of us landowners, and asked for permission to hang a sign, private drive, no trespassing. We all agreed. By the way, my husband gave each one of y'all a packet of pictures. Now that the residents at 242 were moving, they could care less about us. He's the one bringing the total strangers. Then there's the driveway issue. The landowners of 242 have lived there for six years. Two years ago was the first, two weeks ago was the first time he has ever, before the landowners, the landowners of 242 have lived there for six years. Two years ago was the first, two weeks ago was the first time he has ever, two weeks ago was the first time he has ever, helped fill in potholes. And that was because they were having a family wedding, and he wanted to impress their guest. Other than that, they have never helped fill in potholes, helped remove trees that have fallen in the driveway, but most important of all, have never ever cleared snow so that everyone else can have a clear way out in case of an emergency. They leave it up to all of us. We didn't realize the county has already given the permission to run their business. That's what the landowners called it in a text message, their business. I have personally watched people flying in and out of the driveway, leaving the dust for us. My grandchildren can no longer ride their bikes in the driveway for fear of being hit. My brother-in-law placed a speed limit signs up years ago saying 15 miles an hour. We, my husband and I went out, and my brother-in-law, my brother-in-law, my mother and sister-in-law, we had signs made to place on our property to protect us as landowners. I spoke to Mr. Klein and complained about several things, and so has Ms. Case and my husband. Mr. Klein's response to me was he hasn't received any complaints. Sue and Earl Case and my husband and I have been to every board meeting about this issue. Other landowners have sent any comments. The landowner at 242, I'm sorry, Mr. Klein, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I don't know what to do. My brother-in-law at 242 is a realtor, and he sold the house at the top of the driveway. When he sold that land, he had landowners of Lane's Lane sign an agreement giving the new landowners permission to use the lane so that they can access their barns. The email Mr. Klein sent to Ms. Case needs to follow it through with the understanding majority rules. And every landowner must sign. That's what I'm saying. sign when private driveways and easements are in place thank you very much mike shotroff welcome sir thank you my name is michael shotroff i live in no pecking district on waynes lane i have an example of what can happen when cars use our private driveway that they are not familiar with the property owners at 242 waynes lane had a wedding at their property on may 14th i witnessed many cars making wrong turns blocking the entrance into the driveway itself on the main road because people didn't know where to go where he didn't have any signage or anything people wouldn't get out you know they just know where to go on the driveway as you can see on the picture and also to a neighbor's house i've seen a rental truck go over to their property from the wedding access went over and back into their yard to get turned around because they couldn't find a way out and i'm sure it made the neighbors mad i've seen another one go through and turned around in my field you know it it's just making people mad or madder because they i don't want ruts in my field and they don't want their yards people you know just can't get around uh and turn around at uh dead ends on may 21st the airbnb guests like i said got confused and it it's just mind-boggling how he is doing this i just can't comprehend it and i know another board member here a couple times a couple of meetings ago said that he was not running a business like my wife said we got tech saying uh we're taking food away from the table if we make noise to so you know to the disturbs their company and they get bad reviews or anything that they're going to sue us and everything else and we don't know what to do i'm going to have to go to the police station and i'm going to have to go to the I started building my new race car because I had time now where I had to sell my old one. When I start starting it to tune it and everything else, they're loud. And I'm not doing it to drive anybody crazy or mad, but it's my property too. And I'm trying to be considerate of them, but I'm trying also to have my fun where my grandkids ride their four-wheelers out in the front yard. And stuff is, like I said, it's mind-boggling, and it is a business. So that's all I really have to say. The photos that we all received were from these folks. And as you can see on it, there's nowhere to turn around. Thank you. What you should do is make an appointment in the planning department and go in and sit down with them. I can't tell you they can help you, but they can help you. But I can tell you they can help you. But that's the proper approach to get there. Thank you, sir. Yes, ma'am. Hello. My name is Sue Case. I live in the Opecan District on Waynes Lane in Stevens City. I'm here tonight to remind the board of the importance of adding a regulation to the short-term lodging ordinance regarding access to the properties. As I've stated before, I live on a private, shared, one-lane gravel road. The lane takes property. The property is the home of two two-hundred-one owners. The property owner of 242 Waynes Lane has turned his property into a business by placing his home on Airbnb. Therefore, his guests have privy to use a private shared driveway intended for use by property owners and their guests. Not only will there be guest vehicles, but possible housekeepers, lawn maintenance, linen service, and other vehicles involved in maintaining an Airbnb. Supervisor Wells visited our home and said, road and described it as a tough situation. I would also add unique to describe our situation. Mr. Klein commented at the April 27th Board of Supervisors meeting that there are 25 to 30 STLs operating in our county and only one complaint has been received. So I'm assuming that one complaint was ours. I would venture to say that not many STLs, if any, are accessed by a shared one-lane private driveway like ours. It is time to put a regulation on how guests access STL properties. I feel the best scenario is to make STL owners obtain the written consent of use of the shared dryways from sharing parties. This is the only feasible way and this way all homeowners have a voice in this situation. One of the board members commented at the April 27th meeting that they would like to increase the number of people allowed to stay at an STL. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The board member also expressed concerns about imposing restrictions on private property use, meaning the driveway. That wasn't there before, but I feel this privilege has changed now that the property has changed from a residence to a business. The STL owner chose to turn his property into a business thus creating changes to the use of the driveway I feel the property owners using this driveway for residential use need to be considered when making a decision the STL on Wayne's Lane had a renter on Apple blossom weekend the Chesak the guest chose to ignore the speed limit signs creating excessive amount of dust and a very dangerous situation there's children on our lane that ride bikes there's a blind spot on a turn that a driver must be very careful while approaching all of which makes it necessary to obey the speed limit thank you for allowing me to discuss my concerns and comments on this matter as I mentioned before our situation is a very tough and unique one by placing a regulation a written consent of use of STL owners from sharing parties that this would help to resolve the problem thank you yeah Stephen Carroll thank you thank you well oh excuse me welcome thank you so Stephen Carroll Back Creek District direct neighbor of Eli Williams here with four other neighbors to to oppose to speak in opposition to the approval of the Events Center that he's asking for in his barn I've handed out these maps to make a comparison between three events centers that are already in operation in the county and compare them with with Eli's on on page A is Cloverdale at Opecan which is in the middle of 234 acres of agricultural land B is Fox Meadows which is in the middle of a hundred and thirty-five acres of agricultural land with other agricultural land around it and it's also insulated on our yards by a fire station called the ANV 10005 and other did not approve or sign a Senior Transport committee's resolution to include local folks orishop punishing matters intricacies when resisting the motion of The ou Committee's 183 is agreed our final mic verse is the Colburn County's Board of Directors to post your מ�otti plaese do not approve or Via ru seniors who were<|sw|> mention reason as cited carpool of tonight no Nickel that you could come to an Wit Labor undo of this meeting but I encourage you to close the role for the time we're good to 합니다 refuge back it was continued driven by yet another 14川 Ol AV overhead fan West Oaks, we all know is the newest, is on 200 acres of agricultural land with other agricultural fields around it. And when you get to D, Eli Williams, by the way these are just taken straight from the tax map, I just moved from one area of the map to the other and did a screen print, they're all the same scale, you've got a huge area on all three that are already existing, and you get to our neighborhood and Eli Williams has 10 acres that I couldn't even get his name written in the box. And not only that, well, this is all based on the planning department saying that there was open space, agricultural space, all three of these do have open space, agricultural use and undeveloped land. Mr. Williams has no open space, no agricultural use anywhere in the area. And all of these boxes around here are pre-approved residential lots. Some do not yet have a house on them, but they will. Ten acres is not enough to host these kinds of events, it will affect our lives negatively. And we're reassured, supposedly, that there are conditions that make this commercial activity acceptable to the neighbors. Some of the conditions are not restrictive at all. Mr. Williams asked to have a couple of weddings. We're trying to have the family be able to have a wedding-type event every year, and we're trying to allow him to have four per week. That's 208 per year. They can only go from 8 a.m. to midnight. Well, I don't know about you all, but that's all of my waking hours that we're concerned about. And then other restrictions that are new and I appreciate need clarifying. The new restriction number four that you'll see says that a representative, the representative of a representative of the administration, is the representative of the administration, not the representative of the board. The representative of the renters of the, has to always be on the property during the event. I hope that's not just the bride's mother or the father of the quinceanera, but Mr. Williams himself who needs to be on the property and not renting out the house at the same time as the barn. Thank you for listening. Thank you, sir. Teresa Soto Aguilera. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Maria Teresa Soto Aguilar, Buck Creek District. And I'm here to speak against CUP 2-21 item 13A in the agenda today, the Events Center. I printed a map showing the residential neighborhood surrounding Mr. Williams' property. His property is marked in yellow. What most troubles me in this case is the form and supporting documentation presented for approval by the planning office. For example, Mr. Williams' property is consistently referred to as agricultural. That is not the case. Its zoning and use are rural area and residential, as indicated on page one of the report. The surrounding area does not consist of open spaces and agricultural use. This is not accurate. All properties have been approved by the planning office for residential use, and they are just for residential use. And they are just undeveloped. In the year and a half since Mr. Williams has been working on his application, six new houses were added around his property. However, his application continues to avoid inclusion of the growing residential neighborhood. For compliance with some Frederick County codes, the report is directing all rules under an operational form. For compliance with some Frederick County codes, the report is directing all rules under an operational form. Similar procedures are applied for the new residential area donc, within 24 hours, and for a number of additionalball mails given in the six-month period. The honored basis has been the selling off of properties we can afford for the future, however. The estate prices depending on the health condition are rising in New York, with bridge requirements on supply of those развural faster and the cost sometimes going as far as 18 dollars could be raised. In addition, that was based on a $8 million loss to the property and the replacement of Persons with Disabilities takeover policy. area on the map provided on the left top part, well beyond Mr. Williams' property. The VDOT, Health Department, and the Fire and Marches Review and consent to Mr. Williams' request were attended in response to his application for a couple wedding type of events on November 2020 on supposed agricultural land. These governmental offices should be presented with a revised application that includes the current number of events being requested by Mr. Williams and on a residential land as it is to obtain the updated comments for a revised request report. Finally, people being attracted to this neighborhood are coming to live away from city noises and lights. This common peace is going to be interrupted to us every time there is an event in Mr. Williams' property. If you still insist on approving this bad idea, please add, in addition to the renewal review condition of two years, the following, that the use of enjoyment and surrounding of the people in the surrounding properties will be considered during that review period. Thank you. Thank you. Margaret Thompson. Margaret Thompson, Back Creek, and I'm here speaking against Eli Williams, although he's, it's nothing personal, but I live directly across the street from him on Gulf Road, well, not directly, but very close across the street. His parking lot that he plans to put 100 to 150 cars. I'm not going to be able to get a parking lot right across from my house. It's really going to devalue my property. It's going to be, from what I understand, a gravel parking lot. It's going to create a lot of dust, a lot of noise. I, the noise factor, I cannot say enough. I've heard enough noise from down there since, for the last few months that he's been working on the property, tractors backing up at midnight while people that are in the neighborhood are fighting cancer. No respect for the people who are in the neighborhood. I don't see any respect for the people around him. His workers run down the road with their mufflers as loud as they can. I don't see that that's respectful and treating the neighborhood as a neighborhood. I know you, you know, you people think, okay, it's, we don't consider it a neighborhood. Well, the people that live there consider it a neighborhood. We've all tried to keep, keep it up and keep it nice and respect each other. And I don't feel like this is going to, is respectful to us. The, another thing is the traffic. All the traffic is scheduled to go in and out on Gulf Road. Since I've lived out there, the road, the traffic has quadrupled and maybe even more. A lot of logging trucks, a lot of cement trucks, a lot of re, construction is going on up and down Gulf Road. Up and, I don't know how many houses. I don't know how many houses. I don't know how many houses have been built there. But the road's deteriorating. Adding 150 cars to 200 cars to an event is just going to, I, I can't tell you what the road's going to look like. When I weed whack my banks out there, which I still do at my age, piece, there's chunks of wood, of, of tar. All, every time I go out there and weed whack, I pick it up. And the next time I go out there, it's again, it's, it's fall, the road's falling away because there's too much heavy traffic. It's too much heavy traffic on that road. It's not meant to, to have that much traffic. I'm wondering too, is, if I'm, I'm not directly abutting his property, but if he has a parking lot that's 150 cars, is he going to cover that up? Because we have, I have over 200 trees on my property trying to make it, is it going to cover that up? Is it going to cover that up? So I am trying to, sure, I'm not trying to cover that up as much, but still trying to be as, as숙nie-fied as I possibly can, trying to make it look nice. If I have to drive out my driveway and there's a 150 car parking lot across the street, that's not going to, it's not going to be appealing to anybody out there. Thank you for listening. I'm Eddie Durflanger. I live at 4250 Cedar Creek Grade. I've resided there 16, 17 years. I bought the old faucet place, and it's one of the oldest houses in Frederick County, and put a lot of work into it. And I'm really the closest property owner to what's being presented to you folks. The only thing I can say is I want to thank all my neighbors for their support. I want to thank all my neighbors at home that wouldn't come and attend this. And I just can't tell you what it'd be like to sit on the porch and look at a bunch of cars out in the field right in my front yard. And that's really all I've got to say. Thank you all. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Pinier. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Good evening. I'm with the Back Creek District. My wife and I chose to move here because of the quiet rural pastoral beauty of the area. The purpose and intent of the rural area district, as stated, is to preserve large open parcels of land, tree cover, scenic views, sensitive environmental areas. Prime agricultural and locally significant soils and intended to reduce environmental impacts such as soil erosion by requiring development, which is sensitive to the existing features of the natural terrain and by reducing the amount of clearing needed for roads. According to VDOT's regulations, greater than 50 trips would require a commercial entrance in addition to devoting nearly an acre of land for the required parking lot to host events. The intent of rural area district is to minimize alteration of the natural sites features related possibly to the natural environment. The proposed comprehensive proposal allows the district to apologise to jakieś landelles as a responsible property.watre. property without too much impact on the neighbors from loud music. However, Mr. Williams' case hosting the same size event in his 10-acre places all distress on his neighbors. On the basis of excessive noise, increased traffic, and need to convert an acre of agricultural land to parking lot, I respectfully request that you deny Mr. Williams' conditional use application. If the committee so chooses to override the concerns of the community, I request that you consider adding the following conditions to the permit in addition to conditions applied to Mrs. Sullenberger's application. Limit events to no greater than two events per calendar year as requested by Mr. Williams himself in his application. No amplified music. Limit noise level to less than 55 decibels as measured at Mr. Williams' property after 9 p.m. Per VDOT's rules, require addition of a commercial entrance on his property, and all event activities shall start no earlier than noon, and all event and related activities shall conclude by 11 p.m. Consider lowering the event size to no more than 100 people. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. I would note that we did receive some electronic comments that were sent to you earlier. Did receive those. Is there anyone else who wanted to speak to this application? No one? We'll move on. Consent agenda. How would the board like to handle the consent agenda? Mr. Chairman. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. Second. Any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Consent agenda is adopted as presented. Board of Supervisors comments. Are there any? Seeing none, we'll move to the next item. We'll move to the next item. We'll move on. County officials. Mr. Sabo. Always a pleasure to have you, sir. Thank you. Appreciate that. Good evening, Chairman DeHaven, Board of Supervisors. My name is Nick Sabo. I'm the Executive Director of the Winchester Regional Airport. It's wonderful to be with you tonight. I always enjoy an opportunity to speak with you in a public forum, share some of the good news about the airport and tell a little bit about what we do. I'm joined tonight by Mr. Gene Fisher. I appreciate him being here to support. I'd like to start off. Thank you. Thank you very much for having me. I'm a senior. I've been a member of the National Aviation Association. I've been working on the aviation industry since I was a kid. And I've been working on the aviation industry for a long time. I'm a senior from the Air Force. And I've been working on the aviation industry for a long time, actually. A lot of times, I try to explain some of the benefits of a general aviation airport. Sometimes it's not very intuitive, what goes on at an airport where you don't see scheduled airline service. And admittedly, we always can do a better job of communicating that message. We've been working on some new strategies on that. We to premiere an aviation video. I'm sorry it's not Top Gun Maverick, but it is an aviation video, and I'm going to share that with you now if I can. Actually, Scott? Oh, sorry about that. There you go. There are things that happen out here on a routine basis that benefit us all. The term regional airport, by the very meaning of the word, it implies that we serve a regional community. Aircraft that can operate out of this airport can actually reach destinations across the country, and because of that, we've earned that designation. Well, the purpose of the Top of Virginia Regional Chamber is to connect business and community resources for mutual success. Many of the businesses in the Top of Virginia region utilize the airport for logistics, moving their business managers and executives, attracting new business to the airport, so it's a really important aspect for business development as well as retaining business in our community. I've been a part, sort of, on the periphery of Winchester Airport for 30-some years. I've been a pilot since the mid-'80s. It's a pretty dynamic place. Not only do we have my repair facility here, but we have an avionic shop. It's important to the town, I think, because it is an attraction for businesses that require travel for their operations. So I'm Lloyd Clark, the founder and CEO, of Blue Ridge AI. A lot of our installs happen to be in small-town manufacturing environments that sometimes are difficult to access. So general aviation is a really big deal to us. Without question, if we did not have a regional airport in the area, the way that we iterate through our process and we push new features would be stalled. So the airport does touch a lot of different aspects of the community, maybe that folks might not realize that it does. This is an avenue for people to come into our community and explore our community. We have economic development, all the businesses that we have in the area. We have larger businesses, smaller businesses. And then you also have the flight school, so you have opportunities, learning opportunities for the local kids here to be able to get out and just explore the wonders of flight. STEM is short for Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math, and we provide unique experiences for youth, free of charge, where our pilot mentors take students up in the air and teach STEM courses. We've got a lot of components using aviation as the learning lab, and Winchester Regional Airport is our headquarters. A lot of people don't even know the airport's here, and they see airplanes flying over and they think they're dull as traffic. It doesn't cost anything to walk in the door. They've got picnic tables right out here, and you can come sit on the picnic table and watch airplanes come and go with your kids one afternoon for lunch. There's all sorts of opportunities, all sorts of different things that people just don't realize that the airport touches in our community. What kid doesn't love the airport? You're not alone. You're not alone. You're a part of airplanes. You don't have to wait for an event that's here. You can come and you can learn about flight and learn about how to get your kids involved in flight, and it's super easy to do. How fun is flying? So many people didn't realize that they could have this experience right in their own community. Part of our mission at STEM Flights is to promote OKV and highlight for parents and students the important role that local airports have. Aviation is a blossoming industry with the onset of unmanned vehicles, things like that. We want to be a source of this value source for parents and students that want to learn more about those career opportunities. The mission of the airport authority is to meet the aviation needs of the region. And so the better people understand what goes on out here, lend their support to our mission, the better we're able to execute things like business aviation that help foster and add vibrancy to our local economy and key employers. But then other things that are more subtle, things like pipeline and utility inspection or cargo operations or air ambulance services or specialty medical care teams that might come in and perform life-saving surgery at Winchester Medical. So those are all things that are part of the role of this airport. The success of this airport benefits us all. We see now the importance of aviation to allowing businesses to move at the pace that they do today. For our businesses to have the access to aviation travel within minutes of their home will be a continued important factor in developing and attracting businesses to our region. With the area growing and with the airport's idea that they want to grow with the area, the door is open for lots of different opportunities here. And it's beautiful. It is some of the most stunning flying space you could ever fly in. Take five minutes to come out. It's right down the road. It's really close by and just watch some airplanes come and go one day. Thanks for your patience with that. And thanks to everybody that helped participate in that video. And we hope this is one of many communication tools that we can use to get our good story out. On this slide, I'm reminded of that saying that if I had more time, I would have used less words. And really what I wanted to do here was show a couple key pieces of information by showing this kind of five-year comparison with these two budgets and the sources of revenues. One is that, you know, fuel sales have increased. And I'm going to talk a little bit more to that in a second. But also, so has land and rental income. And these, of course, are more stable sources of revenue. And we've worked very hard to try to diversify our revenues away from fuel. So it doesn't really tell us what's going on. But it does tell us that there's a lot of money in the air. And so we're going to be able to do that. And we're going to be able to do that. And we're going to be able to do that. And we're going to be able to do that. And we're going to be able to tell that message exactly how I'd like to tell it. But forgive me on that. And the other piece I would like to highlight is the purple wedge there. That is the operating subsidy that we so graciously received from Frederick County and the city of Winchester. That has declined precipitously also in these five years. A little bit more on the fuel gallons sold. This data is actually current as of today. I just put this together. This shows all 11 months in comparison for the last four fiscal years. FY20, you can see it kind of stalled out. And that's due to COVID. You would have seen that also kind of start that incline upwards. And I'm proud to say on this slide that these fuel sales are not just incidental. It has been intentional. There's been things that we've been doing, one of which is the large corporate hangar that we now operate. Oftentimes, tenants in those hangars, even if it is for an overnight stay, a large business jet tends to top off to get to the next destination. So that's one key source of fuel sales. Others have been taking advantage of contract fuel programs and other marketing programs that have taken effect as of mid-2020. So we've seen the results of that. It's paying dividends. And so we're proud of that. This year, we will set records for gross volume of fuel, gross sales, net profits. In the last 12 years, this will be a banner year for those items. So those are the kind of key takeaways I wanted to highlight on the operating budget side. Fuel volume, the rental and land lease incomes, and how those are stabilizing and growing. And also, the operating subsidy is trending in the right direction as well. Switching gears a little bit to talk about capital projects. And again, this is something I like to promote when we have a public setting because a lot of people are not aware of the sources of some of our revenues that we use to fund key capital projects. Chief among them, I think, is the FAA's Airport Improvement Program. You can see the funding breakdown there. So that's a large source of how we keep our runways, taxiways, and parking aprons in a safe and serviceable condition and continue to be able to uphold that on a daily basis. The Virginia Department of Aviation also has a host of other grant programs that we take advantage of that really expand our dollar and help us maintain other things that the FAA does not support. It is truly a historic time at the airport, and that's not just lip service, but it's because of that second bullet that there's approximately $20 million that is invested or that is programmed, I should say, over the next five years from the FAA and the state of Virginia. Then you couple that with another $10 to $15 million in private investment, also that we'll talk about, and also this terminal program that we'll get to in a bit. And you come up with about $40 million in investment at the airport. I'd like to note that we are a political entity at the end of the day. The authority follows Virginia public procurement, so oftentimes these outside dollars get recycled. Our community, by local contractors, vendors, and suppliers being the beneficiary of these outside funds. A little walk around about where we're spending some of these monies right now. We have no fewer than four capital projects that are current and ongoing. In the heart of that picture, you see a green outline that's apron phase one. That project is set to kick off on Tuesday. Just below that in purple is a site work project that is underway right now. So if you drive by the airport, you'll see a lot of construction equipment and peri-engineering. It was awarded that contract. Then to the right side of that picture, you see KOKV hangers, which is the public-private partnership we were so proud to formalize last year and have the groundbreaking for in February. That is underway, and I want to talk about that again also. And then not pictured is just as important, but it's an obstruction removal project of about two acres off the end of one of our runways. We worked with the property owner to obtain an avigation. We had to get permission to clear that property. All of these things kind of work together to ensure that the airport is providing a safe and efficient landing surface on a daily basis. Airports do participate in the safety mission of a pilot, and it's because of these large capital projects that we're able to do that. A couple pictures here from those KOKV hangers is the name of the development. This is a private development at the end of the day. They've got their foundations in. They've got the asphalt tie into the apron, so it's very exciting. Waiting on structural steel, but we're hoping by mid-June they have that and they can finalize the process here. But this is just a neat project. One, because the partner we had there in TMG has been an outstanding advocate for our airport in other ways. They've marketed the airport. We are proud to share a reputation with them because they're just some of the greatest people that we've been able to interact with. And one great note about this that is a direct benefit to Frederick County is that if the authority had undertaken this exact development, there would not be the same tax benefit in terms of real estate taxes on the improvements that you will reap from this private development. So we're very excited about that project, and they also garnered some national press and Flying Magazine because of this as well. Another capstone, capital project that's in the works right now is our new terminal replacement. Some key features of the design is that there's 3,000 square feet of revenue generating space, and we currently have letters of intent to obligate all that space on day one. There's a business center as we're calling it, but it's really just a multi-purpose room that we hope to host. Not only business meetings, but EDA, civic groups, schools, anything really. We want to be a center for the community in many ways, and we see that business center as being a key part of that. And then finally, 24-7 pilot access. One of the most important missions I feel that we support is the ability to provide a service to the community. One of the most important missions I feel that we support is the ability to provide a service to the community. And one of the most important missions I feel that we support is the ability to provide a service to the community. We don't want to be waiting for the job post to leave this day even just to see everyone leaving without funding it or to say, and we see that as a vital part for our job. And so that's vital for us to have that in this new terminal building. The project enjoys broad support including both senators, Representative Wexton, and a host of other businesses, local government, civic groups, that support this project and we're very proud of that. And we see this as the cornerstone of what we're calling the airport of the future. And we see this as the cornerstone of what we're calling the airport of the future. That's not just lip service. There's a lot going on right now in the aviation industry. aviation industry, it's really a cacophony if you really take it in because you've got things happening with the drone space and all the way up through the privatization of space. We want to make sure that the airport is a resource for our community, really primarily for workforce development. I was at a conference actually just the other day, and they talked about the number one thing that businesses look for, of course, is a qualified workforce. And we want to make sure that Frederick County and the greater region is not left behind when it comes to aerospace because there are so many new opportunities that are coming online. We want to make sure that we are a repository for all those resources and can support our community in that way. A couple of renderings here. These are slightly dated, so we have request our architect implement a host of value engineering on top of this, but this should give you the general flavor for what we're trying to design and build and construct. So when this thing is finally done, if you squint, it might look a little bit like this, but just suffice to say that these renderings are going to be a real treat. are just representative only, but we are very proud of the design. Again, we think it'll be a new marquee feature in our community that we hope the community feels welcome out at the airport. Little bit about the timeline. We're gonna put this out for bid on Memorial Day through EVA. I've been working closely with procurement to do this and get everything finalized for that. July 8th is the bid opening. We've got 90 days at that point to finalize our funding plan and issue notice of award, looking at approximately a 15 to 16 month construction season. So we'll hope to have a ribbon cutting in June of 2024. We are working very hard on funding scenarios and in conversation with many of you, it has been a working goal to minimize as much as possible any local dollars going into this. And it's an ambitious goal and we are very encouraged by what we're seeing. A lot of these grants and other things though, we will not know fully until possibly the end of June, maybe into July. So we'll have a lot more information by the time the bid opening is upon us and we'll be happy to share all that with you. But we're very encouraged by what we're seeing. We're also exploring and working with the USDA on an application through the Rural Development Program if we need to take on debt. And even with that, it's something that the authority, of course, would be responsible for that debt service. And we've looked at the pro forma and some tentative budgets. We think we can do so as well. And again, we want to be the ones responsible for that. And again, we want to be the ones responsible for that. And again, we want to be the ones responsible for that. And again, we want to be the ones responsible for how this thing gets done. So we're excited about that. And we'll keep you apprised of all those funding scenarios as they come online. With that, really, I just have this slide as a thank you to this board. Also, Frederick County staff, specifically the finance department, Cheryl, Missy, Sharon, they all do a fantastic job. Frederick County is our fiscal agent. We lean on you for a lot of support and much of which is unwarranted in some ways, I feel. But we really do appreciate the partnership we have with Frederick County. So thank you to you. And I'm happy to address any questions you might have. Thank you, sir. Questions, anyone? Supervisor Dunn. It's not a question, but a comment. Four years ago, you came to us and said that you could do certain things. And I appreciate your executing, including the reduction in the subsidy that you get from the county. That's a plus, building a private entity. So I think you and Mr. Fisher deserve a round of applause for really what has been an execution of what you've laid out to be. Good job. Appreciate that. Anyone else? Well done, sir. We very much appreciate all you do and the way you do it. Thank you. Appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. Parks and Rec, Stonewall District. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman, I would like to make a comment. I would like to nominate for the appointment for the Stonewall District, Jennifer Meyers. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ms. Meyers will be appointed. Social Services Board, Shawn E. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. It's my pleasure to nominate Ms. Gail Ferreira for reappointment to the Social Services Board. I appreciate the time, effort, and diligence she has already shown during her short tenure on that board. Second. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ms. Ferreira will be reappointed. Winchester Regional Airport Authority, the four-year term of Gene Fisher. Mr. Fisher is eligible and willing to be reappointed. Second. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, I would move to reappoint Mr. Gene Fisher to the airport authority. Second. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Fisher will be reappointed. Additional four-year term. Finance Committee. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, this is a bit lengthy. We did not have a meeting the prior month, so just keep in mind that this is two months of a collection of, and also that we will take each item separately in an effort of transparency for those at home who are viewing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Ferreira. Thank you, Ms. Ferreira. Okay. Our next item on the agenda is the Planning Director's Proposed Monetary Guarantee and Performance Agreement Policy and Request a Recommendation from the Committee to the Board. The Committee made a recommendation of approval. The Committee made a recommendation of approval, and since that time and during that meeting, of course, county attorney Mr. Williams indicated that there would be a few changes to that, and you were present. Ms. Ferreira? Yes. Thank you. you were provided that, I believe, ahead of the meeting. But, Mr. Williams, would you like to just touch on those few changes? Certainly. Thank you. It's three categories of changes, two very small ones. And the two are on page three. There's one instance where it uses the word extend, and that should be renew. That's at the end of Section 2A1. And then in the next Section 2A2, Director of Finance should be Treasurer. And then throughout the document, there's replete instances of the use of the word bond or bonds. There's a bit of a distinction there. Bond is actually a term of art in that it is a type of a monetary guarantee, and we're trying to make sure we don't create confusion. And I know it's more. It's more words, but it's for clarity. So we're going to change the use of the word bond in the agreement to monetary guarantee throughout where appropriate. But those are the only changes, nothing substantive. Thank you, sir. So with those changes in mind and those amendments, then I would offer a motion to adopt the policy that has been presented. Second. Motion is second to adopt. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Graver? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number two, the Parks and Recreation Interim Director requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $1,500. This amount represents a donation for volleyball nets at Clearbrook Park. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number three, the EMS Billing Manager requested EMS expense recovery fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $450,000. This amount represents expected revenue and expenses through the end of fiscal year 22. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number four, the Greenwood Volunteer Fire and Rescue Company President requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $1,500. This amount represents expected revenue and expenses through the end of fiscal year 22. No local funds are required. NO worth муз continue this item was approved by the Public Safety Committee, no local funds are required, the committee recommends approval and I would still move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion. Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number five, the Fire and Rescue Chief requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $7,000. This amount represents the sale of a trailer and will be used to purchase an inflatable fire safety education house and cart. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Question is second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number six, the EDA Director requests an EDA fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $6,300. This amount represents funds received for the employer expo. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion is second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number seven, the EDA Director requests an EDA fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $8,936. This amount represents funds received from Shenandoah County and the City of Winchester for website design and an interactive job board for the regional partnership. Shenandoah Valley Talent Solution Coalition. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Motion is second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number eight, the Sheriff requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $100. This amount represents... donations for the Honor Guard, and will be used for uniforms. No local funds are needed. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ledbet. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Grable. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number nine, the sheriff requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $3,161. This amount represents donations to the department, and will be used for the impound lot building. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Graver. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ledbet. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number 10, the sheriff requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $4,000. The sheriff requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $4,560. This amount represents traffic control recovered cost in excess of budgeted revenue, and will be used for overtime. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ledbet. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number 11, the sheriff requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $43,278.36. This amount represents vehicle insurance claims to be used for replacements and repairs. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number 12, the sheriff requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $11,235.74. This amount represents DEA reimbursements to be used for overtime. No local funds required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number 13, the sheriff requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $4,041.45. This amount represents reimbursement for IT equipment. No local funds required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number 14, the IT director requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $71,811. This amount represents restricted PEG funds to cover cost of maintenance and support for public meetings and upgrades, microphones and cameras and so forth. The local funds, no local funds are required. The committee recommends approval. And request the IT director obtain a cost estimate for broadcasting from the back of the Board of Supervisor meetings for work sessions. I would make a motion for approval. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number 15. The Northwest Regional Jail is requested for the approval of a federal superintendent to request a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $300,000. This amount represents reimbursement of medical expenses for the last three years. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number 16. The Northwest Regional Jail is requested for the approval of a federal fund to be used as a means of providing medical assistance to the community. Item number 15. The Northwest Regional Jail is requested for the approval of a federal fund to be used as a means of providing medical assistance to the community. This is a request for the approval of a federal fund to be used as a means of providing medical assistance to the community. Item number 16. The Northwest Regional Jail Regional Adult Detention Center superintendent requests a court services fund budgeted transfer in the amount of $3,000 from a fringe benefit line item to personnel. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion is second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number 17. The deputy county administrator requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $472,954 from available proffer funds and a transfer from the county capital fund in the amount of $152,046. This will be used for the renovation of the Sunnyside Plaza, for the relocation of the voter registrar's office any unspent funds in fiscal year 22 will be carried forward to fiscal year 23 the committee recommends approval and I would so move second ocean in a second is there any discussion hearing none supervisor Graber no supervisor done supervisor McCarthy supervisor well supervisor slaughter supervisor Ludwig I chair votes I in the motion carries item number 18 the registrar requested general funds supplemental appropriation in the amount of 28,000 the amount represents the balance of funds needed to conduct the June 2022 primary election local funds are required the committee recommends approval and I would so move second in a second is there any discussion hearing none supervisor Ludwig I supervisor slaughter I well I supervisor McCarthy supervisor done supervisor great I chair votes aye in the motion carries item number 19 the Winchester Regional Airport director request an airport fund supplemental appropriation the amount of 160,000 this amount represents funds needed for fuel sales through the end of fiscal year 22 no local funds are required and the committee recommends approval and I would so move second ocean is second is there any discussion hearing none supervisor Graber I supervisor done supervisor McCarthy I supervisor indust sped Norburont I point not advisor supervisor Place he's my sorry it's one of the mostarea I完 fasie a expenditure appropriations for the open purchase order balances at the end of fiscal year 22 will automatically carry forward to fiscal year 23 projects currently in process with a corresponding open purchase order have been previously approved the committee recommends approval and I would so move second second is there any discussion hearing none supervisor Ludwig I supervisor slaughter I surprise well I supervise McCarthy supervisor done supervisor grave I chair votes aye and the motion carries planning Commission business public hearings mr. Clark yes good evening mr. chairman members of the Board of Supervisors this is a application to rezone 1.4 acres of property zone b3 industrial transition zoning district to be a new home for the next five years and the new home for the next five years is a proposal to rezone the B2 general business district with proffers and to rezone 15.4 acres from the b3 district to the b3 district with amended proffers staff would note that this application modifies a previous land use approval with rezoning application oh 1-0 6 it is a map amendment only and no other proffer amendments are proposed the intended use of the B2 zone parcel is a general merchandise store and staff would note that the applicant has to replace the dozen properties left on board and to to rezone young people indacakted use the company's personal property, to rezone new homes for a transit approval for the new land use range and for the residential salon British까지 project. and that is to rezone Angham and Greenuffy properties and set the ground for review by the county for identity that location directing your주는 to the screen the subject properties are outlined in blue the parcel subject to the map change is located here at the northwest corner the trends for 11 and jeff sway right 11g deeneptan 1.4 acres of property this is our future land use map designates the properties for business the existing land youizer come and be on got you the existing zoning rather be a local the existing zoning rather B3 is consistent with the future land use map and the proposed zoning district B2 is also consistent with our current land use map. Again the site is located within the sewer and water service area and the limits of the Northeast land use plan. It's envisioned to be business and remain as business in the future. Staff would know that the site will have commercial access from Jeff's Way as required by the proffers approved with rezoning 0106 and there are no potential traffic impacts based on a change from B3 to B2. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item on May 4th and recommended approval. The rezoning is presented this evening as a public hearing item and following that public hearing staff is seeking a decision by the board on this proposed rezoning application. Tim Stowe is here representing the owners this evening as well and I'm of course happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Thank you sir. Questions? Mr. Klein, anyone? Supervisor Dunn. Yes for the record. I understand that the current owner had some proper issues or some zoning issues and I understand those issues are being addressed. Is that correct? There are there is one zoning issue and it is being addressed. Yes sir. Second item is that I understand that as that area is developed and further screening will be put in as the area is developed it's not all meant to be at the same time. Is that correct? That is correct. Under the previous approved rezoning application there is a proffer that states that they are required to do a landscape buffer at the time of site plan approval so as each out parcel develops as part of our review we will ensure that that buffer is in place. That is what you would see as it as it develops around the site. Thank you. Other questions? Anyone? Thank you sir. Mr. Stowe, anything you'd like to add sir? No. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Board Members, thank you for the opportunity to speak. I always get excited when we have business opportunities that we can bring to the county because there's an opportunity my taxes might get lowered as a resident here and I find that very appealing. I don't want to repeat what Mr. Klein has said but I'll be glad to answer any questions you may have. As he said this was originally rezoned in 06. This is what we felt like it was going to be. We're going to go ahead and get back to you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I feel like it was a minor rezoning so I'll be glad to answer any questions. I'm not going to pontificate here. Questions of Mr. Stowe, anyone. No. I see none sir. Thank you. You did a good job apparently. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No sir. Is there anyone here who came to speak to this application. Seeing none we'll close the public hearing portion. This is Stonewall. Yes sir, Mr. Stowe? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. I would make a motion for approval for rezoning 02-22 of R&J Land Development LLC. Second. Second. Any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCartney? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries, and the rezoning is approved. Mr. Klein? Yes. This is a multiple ordinance amendment request to amend Chapter 165 of the zoning ordinance to clarify and amend requirements contained in our supplementary use regulations, our off-street parking requirements, and our planned development district sections. I will walk you through each of those text changes for each of those items. The first pertains to the protection of environmental features, and this is a proposed amendment to expand the allowance granted to the zoning administrator for additional disturbance of steeper and more steeper roads. The proposed amendment is to allow for a greater flexibility in the zoning ordinance beyond what is presently allowed in the zoning ordinance. Our current ordinance allows up to 25% of steep slopes on a site to be disturbed. What it currently states is that additional small areas of disturbance may be disturbed under the zoning administrator's approval, where it alleviates potential health and safety problems and does not significantly impact the overall environmental quality of the site. The proposed amendment removes that potential health and safety problem statement and gives the zoning administrator greater flexibility in evaluating the zoning ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next item for your consideration this evening pertains to our off-street parking requirements. This is a proposed amendment to modify the off-street parking requirements for single-family attached or townhome dwelling units. Presently, the zoning ordinance requires two off-street parking spaces for all single-family dwellings and mobile homes, regardless of the housing type. The proposed amendment would increase the amount of off-street parking required for townhomes or off-street housing. single-family attached units to two and a half spaces per unit what we have seen with this two parking space requirement is it has been insufficient for our townhome communities typically that requirement is being fulfilled with a single garage space and a single driveway space and as you all are well aware people fill up their garages and then also you know the layout of town home communities because of the driveway spacing because they have private roads that are tend to be narrow there is limited if any off street parking spaces for visitors some developers have been thoughtful about including that most developers do not and we have a parking issue essentially in these communities so this is an opportunity or an effort by staff to alleviate that concern and we have heard from several of our townhome communities about the need for additional parking you know they might have more than two vehicles they may have a trailer they may have a parking lot they may have a parking lot they may have a watercraft or a motorcycle and they need somewhere to park their vehicles the final item for your consideration this evening pertains to conditional uses in our planned development districts this would clarify that use is permissible with a conditional use permit in the residential planned community or our Ford residential recreational community our five districts presently it doesn't include anything it's specific to conditional uses in either one of those districts we have been interpreting it to be such that if conditional use is allowed in the RP district which is also allows the same uses in the r4 and the r5 that a conditional use permit would be requirement but this is an opportunity to codify that so there would be no interpretation made and relatively straightforward the planning Commission held a public hearing on this item last week on May 18th recommended approval this item again is presented to you all as a public hearing item and following a public hearing staff is seeking a decision by the board on these proposed text amendments I'm of course happy to answer any questions you may have as it pertains to these amendments thank you thank you sir questions of mr. Klein anyone hearing none we'll open a public hearing did anyone sign up no sir did anyone come to speak to these ordinance amendments seeing no one will close the public hearing this is a general how would the board like to handle it mr. chairman yes sir I would move for approval of the ordinance amendments as presented motion to approve sir second okay and the second is there any discussion hearing none supervisor Ludwig aye supervisor slaughter aye supervisor Wells supervisor McCarthy supervisor Dunn supervisor Graber aye chair votes aye and the motion carries and the ordinance amendments are approved welcome Mr. chairman chairman members of board this is an action item in front of you tonight is for a conditional use permit to 0 to 21 for a special event facility just give you a quick run-through before we go to the modified conditions of this conditional use permit the property is located at the 15th Saturday Gold Road it's outlined again you're all familiar with that the 10 acres they're subject to this conditional use permit this is the barn where the condition for the events that were happening in the words there in the barn this is the layout the applicant put in you know you've heard folks speak before your meeting tonight just to give you a quicker run-through again the Board of Supervisors for the record mr. chairman had a public hearing on this application on April 27 2022 and proposed any proposed any action for 30 days to allow the applicant to address supervisors concerns the applicant has worked with the supervisors and staff to try to approve this application with additional conditions that you will be on your screen next I've outlined the additional conditions in yellow and the original conditions what you normally see on these special events will be in place the review comments will be complied with at all times which the applicant is you caught your pact that was sent to you by the reviewing agencies so now I'll be complied with obviously the illustrious sketch plan we have number three the special event shall start no later than 8 a.m. and all events and related activities shall conclude by midnight there'll be no amplified outdoor music a lot and no amplified noise outside of the barn we also added condition number four and this is a we're representing the representative for the owner shall always be on the property during the time the event was felt that they had someone instead of just rented out I think some of the concerns that were brought up earlier in the meeting about you know was someone going to be there this condition working with the applicant was there would be somebody responsible for what the activity goes on here number five was no more than four days to allow the applicant to address the event and the event was not a complete and complete event four days of events are permitted each week and the idea behind that mr. chairman again was not like a long-term three four or five day evolution you have it have it there number sevens and landscape buffers should be installed at the request and writing of joining property owners within the 60 days of the approved conditional use permit and what that entitled is coming out that we do have as was pointed out again by some of the citizens that come out that are joining properties owners that spoke about this going back to the applicant was to put the landscape buffering up again the applicants required by our zoning ordinance to provide for a illustrative plan of layout was felt that within 60 days if we had an adjoining property right now it said hey I want that to happen we would look at that staff would evaluate the buffer requirement make sure it beats what the applicant can put in and also with the adjoining property owner so that's that was one of the other conditions was added and finally the the last condition which was mentioned I think one of the speaker spoke this conditional use permit shall be reviewed in 24 months in short of preceding conditions are being met and basically I'm going to miss chairman when you're on Planning Commission at the time and when you were on the board but on a Planning Commission we did have a conditions like that a conditional use permits for the longest time I know the board did change their policy probably when I first started here that we felt that that you know if the applicant apply for a conditional use permit if there was a zoning violate which it is his only violation if you violate it basically we would my office would serve you know I would cite them and then we would go through a proceeding that way but there was talking with the applicant with supervisor we felt that this would give us an idea where we're at with this conditional use permit and again if it if it has not been met any of those conditions action can be won by a zoning violation and the ultimate hammer of your revocation and that's pretty much where we're at on this condition use permit should the board find it this is an action item staff is seeking a decision for the board of supervisors on his proposed conditional use permit I'll answer any questions or distance or subtractions on this conditional use permit mr. chairman question of mr. chair yes sir supervisor Graver thank you mr. chairman this morning about 7 a.m. I received a phone call from the applicant and subsequently had a conversation with mr. Sharon I want to make sure that this got added as this was my understanding and if I'm incorrect in understanding this I asked that I'd be corrected here but the understanding that I had was there would be no audible noise from music or amplified music at the propertyolo and I did not see that added here is that is that your understanding of the conversation I have to ask that the applicant on that because that is correct so could that be added to the conditions as presented and then secondly the landscape buffer 60 days after the approval my only concern with that is is if in a year from now or six months from now the leaves are off the trees somebody sees the barn sees things and they're like hey I'd like to add that landscape buffer at that point is there any provisions that would allow for that so is there any provisions I see we have 60 days there now is there any way we could put that for a year is there a possibility there that we can go down that road again it's a conditional use permit mr. I grab where we can I it yes we can I'll just leave it at that it was my understanding that that was what the applicant was agreeing to so if that is if that is in the agreement that I would like to see those two items added as part of the conditions if there's no other questions I'll make them other other questions of mr. chair and anyone there are no other questions I might suggest that next planting season is also important other than just time you one question mr. chairman and getting back to guy your condition number three on the ample the amplified noise where that we're looking to add you outside you outside the event center you're saying amplified music I just the condition can be added I'm just giving a little advice here I think that that that could end up being problematic in terms of what end resultio once upon a time a small one that was certainly shared with the same N посe DA network had with Ian Oh hey can we go there again we should be able to save you I mean the engineer as another one does not seem to know anything about when posture things any what noise that you had was pointed out people driving down a road is that what we have so I I just want to throw that at the caution out there I'm with you if you want that I had mr. grant that's not an issue it was it was no amplified okay nothing amplified could be heard at the property on vehicles we understand but anything amplified will does the things that I know that he would like to do, this is going to be a non-issue. But right now, the slats, you can crank music in that barn pretty easily and make it a real hard time for the neighbors. And so in the light of trying to create a delicate balance here, if there's no noise by the adjoining property owners from amplified music or verbal conversations, it makes the question go away. Yes, sir. Hi. Other discussion? Anyone? Other questions? Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. We've been dealing with event centers for the last four or five years. The 24-month review, this is new. Is that correct? To the best of my knowledge, that's not been undone on any other previous one? That's correct, Mr. Dunn. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for that review, Supervisor Dunn, was there were some complaints by neighbors of the noise and lack of consideration they had felt that they had received and being that this event center was in the center of such a small piece of property. When there are different events happening or things going on, the noise is heard by all adjoining landowners, and they wanted to make sure that there was a general respect for the neighborhood and a 24-month review they felt many felt would provide for that. Thank you. Anyone else? Thank you, sir. Is this public hearing? This public hearing was held earlier. Spack Creek, sir. With the additions that I made to the conditions this evening, I'd like to make a motion that we approve conditional use permit 02-21 for Eli Williams. Word to motion. Is there a second? I'll second it. Second. Discussion? Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. Sure. I think it's pretty well known that I'm not a big fan of CUPs for these purposes. This is, in my opinion, the perfect example of why I don't think this is a good CUP provision. We're talking about, well, we're not sure this is going to work, so let's come back and look at it two years from now. We're talking about two years from now. This may not be issues because it'll be properly insulated. It's not properly insulated now. We have many, many members of the community who live around them who will be affected by this. This is not a by-right thing. This is giving someone a right that they don't currently have to change the use of their property, but it's going to negatively affect people that have come forward this evening. We've approved other CUPs where we've had the neighbors come forward and say, I think this is a good thing versus a bad thing. In this case, we have many people saying it's a bad thing. We looked at the maps that were provided. It's obvious that this is a very small parcel compared to the other parcels. All of that being said, and not being a huge fan of CUPs in the first place, I can't support this motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would mirror Supervisor McCarthy's comments. I do not like CUPs in event centers, especially on this size of property. It is not something that I took lightly. It's not something that I enjoy seeing, especially on such a small postage stamp of property. However, I also understand the restoration of old property in this barn as the gentleman tried to restore property to make it not an eyesore and to improve the value of the property and surrounding properties. In providing for the restrictions, I made every attempt to respect the neighbors right to enjoy their property, which was the noise. The noise, I felt, would be the biggest hiccup. If I was a neighbor to this property, I would not want to hear the flavor of the week playing over at the barn, and I can fully respect the property owners who have requested not having the requirement to listen to all the different things that pass through the barn. So, by having the propertyść as part of the talisman, and having a little bit in difference from what CUP visitors, there must be democracy on the property that ckeed s changing controls, out of the mitigations. Does it teach our residents a little? the requirement that no audible amplified noise can be heard at the property line should mitigate that fact. The roadway, I don't like that there's going to be additional traffic added onto that roadway. However, I also understand the fact that there's going to be additional homes built on there. There's a lot of homes that are being proposed to be built. You're going to have a significant amount of additional traffic there, whether this barn is in place or not. Should the applicant decide to make it a working farm and make it grapevines or other things there, you would realize additional traffic as a result of all those farm vehicles going in and out if that were developed into a farming tract of land. So it may not be 150 vehicles, but it may be heavier vehicles. So I believe there's a little bit of give and take here, and I believe that this can meet the requirements of the law. I believe it is something that we can do. And we are hoping that we can get that to work. And I think we can get it to work. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We're going to see if we can get that to work. We'll see if we can get that to work. The next item on the agenda is the need to the neighbors and the neighborhood while allowing Eli to utilize the property as he so desires. So I appreciate the opportunity for consideration. Further discussion, anyone? Hearing none. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? No. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes no. Thank you. motion fails we will move on to a discussion short-term lodging mr. Clyde yes good evening mr. chairman board members this is another ordinance amendment for your consideration this evening staff would note that this is a information discussion item not a public hearing this is a proposed amendment to add to our zoning ordinance short-term lodging or STL to the definition section to provide additional regulations for that use and to add the use to our RA rural areas RP residential performance and mh1 mobile home community districts as proposed by staff and following the work session that we had on this item we are proposing that these uses be permitted by right through an administratively reviewed permit process and staff has included that draft permit to you which reflects many of the zoning ordinance requirements in fact all of the zoning ordinance requirements as directed the permit would be valid for a period of two years and applicants to making a short-term lodging permanent application would incur a $200 fee the two-year period will allow us every two years to evaluate if the conditions of the zoning ordinance are being met by the short-term lodging operators as you will recall you all discuss this item in great length 27th and following that discussion staff made a number of changes to address many of the concerns that were raised by the board of supervisors we have further specified that the number of lodgers per night shall not exceed 10 unrelated persons we have specified that the maximum number of rental contracts per night is per dwelling unit so if you had two dwellings on a property say you had a primary dwelling and an accessory dwelling you could have essentially one contract on each of those units we have updated the off-street parking requirements to at least two off-street parking spaces for overnight lodgers and we've added an additional requirement that short-term lodging operators in the RA zoning district provide written permission from the other properties that use a private driveway addressing many of the concerns that we've heard from the community we did look around to think about what solutions would be the most appropriate to address the problem of the property and we've added a number of new requirements to address this shared driveway issue they are all imperfect there is not a one-size-fits-all solution but we do feel like this is the best solution and given that this is an information discussion this evening when we have we will have public hearings before the planning commission the board there is an opportunity for our short-term short-term lodging operators that are currently operating to come talk to us about what their concerns may be with any of these regulations and specifically that as the shared driveway so we want to make that clear that there are opportunities for additional input at this point but we do feel like this is a solution that will address many of the concerns that have been raised in regards to driveway this is what our zoning ordinance definition defines as a driveway so it's a private travel way for vehicles which provide access to a public street or road from a parking space garage dwelling structure use so we do have a definition for driveway in addition to when we use that term private driveway i'll quickly go through what what we are proposing you all have heard this before but again just a quick overview the zoning ordinance presently does not include a definition or use for short-term lodging we have similar uses but they are not exactly the same and they don't allow us to regulate this use in such a manner that we would like again when we talk about short-term lodging we're talking about any occupancy of all a part of a dwelling or mobile home for a period of 30 days or less if a contract is signed and it's more than 30 days it's six months it's a full year that's that's a lease or a sublet that's that's separate and we're not talking about a short-term lodging we're talking about those weekend stays you know week stays things of that nature this is our supplemental use regulations for short-term lodging again maximum number of lodgers should not exceed 10 unrelated persons no more than five guest rooms are permitted the maximum number of contracts is per dwelling unit and all those uh all the lodgers occupying the dwelling unit must be associated with the same contract and then again a list of requirements that we have for our short-term dwelling units that they would be available for inspection by the county during reasonable hours to ensure that the county codes and the building code are being met have working multi-purpose fire extinguisher smoke detectors carbon monoxide detectors have plans posted within the door of each sleeping unit showing accessible paths and ways to get out of the building if there was an emergency have at least two designated off-street parking spaces that the all that the operator has the authority to reserve specifying that they if they have a shared private driveway that they can use for short-term lodging and then we're talking about a short-term use of the property that they receive written permission from the other owners of that private driveway to ensure that they are allowed to use it special events would be prohibited as part of a short-term lodging use and that no lodging activities take place until they have an approved permit from planning and development and also an approved business license from the commissioner of revenue ensuring that they pay their lodging occupancy taxes that are required so again this item is presented for discussion and following your discussion this evening staff is seeking action by the board to send this item forward for a public hearing and as part of our public hearing requirement we are going to reach out to all of our existing short-term lodging operators we do have that list from the commissioner of revenue we will be sending them notice and the ordinance to let them know what changes may be taking effect that could affect their operations and ensuring that they are aware that they will have to come into compliance when this is adopted so i'm happy to answer any questions you have thank you sir supervisor mccarthy chairman thank you mr klein i may need the county attorney to help you with this one um can you tell me how the definition of driveway would not apply to a private roadway that has driveways as branches off of it from the definition standpoint it seems that the definition could apply to a private uh roadway as well mr klein can you put that definition back up there yes sir we did we did talk about this today in fact yeah we did we discussed this today and the basically the conclusion of the discussion was that it gets it gets a little bit fuzzy um what the difference between a driveway and a road even is um and we recently within the past couple of years had an instance with a commercial property that has um a two thousand plus foot roadway that has a two thousand plus foot roadway that has a two thousand plus foot call it roadway call it driveway that goes through it um and it gets a little fuzzy but i'm not sure frankly if it's private it's private the point of the draft is that if it's private you need permission otherwise you need to be on v-dot that that's sort of where the draft left it so in other words we're not really talking about driveways at all we're talking about all private access easementsうん That's sort of where the draft left it. So in other words, we're not really talking about driveways at all, we're talking about all private access easements? that's sort of where I'd like to step aside on, sure... c'mon man we respect that if your recognize that and then we change the definition. tis был a long and motherfu- I think a private driveway and a private access easement are just about one and the same thing. That's why I make sure we're all clear on what we're talking about here. You know, there are plenty of subdivisions, rural subdivisions in the county, especially in Gainesboro and Back Creek, where there may be a dirt road that goes two or three miles with 20 or 30 homes on it. And we're talking about someone having to go get permission from 20 or 30 homes. We're talking about taking a private property right away from an individual. This is different than the CEP earlier, where we're giving an additional right to someone who doesn't have that right yet. This is taking rights away from our property owners. We're getting into the weeds, civil issues that should be negotiated between individuals, not part of the government to determine. Mr. Klein, another thing I want to just put out there is I'm concerned a little bit about the fact that there's no definition between the survey and dominant estate on those easements. The survey and dominant estate. Just for those of you who are not lawyers in the room, the survey and estate is the landowner who gave the easement to the neighbor. The dominant estate is the person who has the easement, the benefit of it. If I own a piece of land and my neighbor says, I want to, you know, may I use your driveway because VDOT says I can't get a good access, and I give that to them, should I then have to go ask their permission to be able to use my property? And this ordinance, the way it's written, would require me to do that. So I think there needs, at the very least, to have some discussion of the dominant survey and easements. And as I think we're really getting, we're playing judge, jury, lawyer here with this, and I think we're getting a little bit too into the weeds, in my opinion. Other comments? Anyone? Supervisor Dunn? Mr. McCarthy, I appreciate your law degree. We had some comments earlier on two individuals both having the same driveway, which we saw pictures of. You made the comments about 30. How do you resolve the issue between people that are essentially using a road, and people that are actually using a road? And I think that's a good question. I mean, it's a private road. I mean, this is more of a discussion, but an example that we had before, we had two owners, and one owner is using that for kids, et cetera. The second owner is using that now for a commercial property, which initially had been a private residence. So they've switched their use of the property from residential to commercial. How do you address that? I'm not debating as much as having a thought process on that. In my mind, from a legal standpoint, I don't think there's any distinction between two or 20. Each owner has the same rights in their property. So I don't think that it matters whether it's two or 20. The issue is that you have a property question with your neighbor. There are ways for you to go ahead and have that taken care of without having the government impose regulations and rulings. You go get your lawyer, and you talk to your lawyer, and you have these discussions with them about what your rights are, and you have those discussions with your neighbors, and you work it out the way that we have for 400 years. We don't need the government adding this to it. We're not making a mess for so many landowners within the county taking their rights away from them. One other question then, and that is an example we had before. You had property A and property B. Assume that property B is the person who was doing the commercial. Is there anything then that would prohibit property B from putting his own driveway in, which then alleviates the property because now he has a designated driveway road? There's a lot of things that could... The bottom line is it's a private property issue between landowners. Which I'm empathetic to, and I'm also looking to solve a problem. Speaking to Supervisor McCarthy's point, we don't have it anywhere else in the ordinance where we regulate it in this manner. We do special event facilities has that same kind of stipulation, but again the scale of those is different than maybe what we're talking about because events are prohibited as part of this. So for context, this is not something we typically regulate in this manner. And to put a finer point on it, that's a CUP issue. You're granting someone an additional right in their land. This is a by-right issue. This is a right I already have in my land and you're talking about taking it away. And that's a big deal versus giving someone a right that they don't currently have, which is the event center. So the question becomes if you have a by-right, does that by-right include any use, meaning from purely residential to a commercial entity? And if so, because what we're hearing on the short-term rental is you've gone from residential to commercial. So that's why I'm asking the question. No. Our zoning ordinances already tell us what we can do with each zoning designation. So no, not anything goes. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm in concurrence with your thoughts on private property. I don't want to see the government get involved in private property rights. However, I believe we're changing the use of that property. If it was a residential property and now it is essentially a commercial property because they've gotten a business license and they are using it as a business, we are changing the use, the atmosphere of that entire property. We're having people on that road that are not familiar with the road. We're having people on that road that may or may not have a vested interest in the community. It's a totally different approach to that property than what if you came to me and asked me for rights to cross my property for you to build a home, I may like you and give you those rights. But if you want to have an Airbnb there that's going to have a new neighbor every other night, I'm probably not going to give you those rights. And it's a totally different request, I believe, if you're coming to the landowner. And I think that it does need to be addressed and I think that this has done a fairly good job of laying that out. So I appreciate staff for presenting that. Supervisor Graber, I disagree with you. It's not a new right. This is something that we're allowed to do in our, that zoning area by right. If you recall, three or four months ago we got together and said, do we even want to regulate this at all? We are imposing regulation upon a current right that our city has. We are imposing regulation upon a current right that our citizens have to rent out their property. We may not like the fact that they can rent out their property for short terms. We're trying to take a right that we currently have. You can lease your house out right now. We don't like the fact, some people don't like the fact that you can rent it out to multiple people over and over and over again within a month and not be the same people. So we want to try and head off the issue. And when we had the discussion several months ago, the question came up of, you know, we're not collecting the taxes, we're not getting the revenues because people aren't getting their business licenses, and we're not able to go in and regulate this because there's no way for us to go in and regulate it without changing the ordinance. By changing the ordinance, we are making this a commercial issue. This is something that we can already do. I can rent out my house right now. I have to have my business license. I have to pay my taxes. But I don't have to do any of these things until we pass it. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I just wanted to put out a thought. I tend to agree with Supervisor McCarthy. There are certain things we're allowed to do in our home, and it's not just rent out the home for its use, but unless you have HOA restrictions, you can start a business in your home. Now, there are already rules about how many people can come visit it. But if you wanted to run a modest business that your neighbor isn't, you know, something you do online, the neighbor isn't even aware that you're doing it, I put it in that category. If I have a right with my home, I don't think we should do anything to restrict that right. Whether that preexisting right was advisable or not or something that would be unanticipated by neighbors is indeed an issue, but I'm not sure this board should be restricting people's existing rights. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, just one point of clarification to Mr. McCarthy's points. Completely correct in the ability to rent out your house separately. One clarifying point we would like to offer is that we have, prior to this, considered it a requirement to obtain a conditional use permit to operate an Airbnb, and that was under those definitions that Tyler mentioned in his rooming house and boarding house or the bed and breakfast definition. And so that is applied leading up to this. And I think you all have seen a couple of those conditional use permits come through under that, and that's for both the RA and RP zoning districts. Thank you. As of right now. So just one minor clarification for the board's consideration there. Further discussion. Mr. Chairman. Yes. With regard to that, because I was going to ask that question, other localities handling this, are they all requiring or all adopting their policy primarily as a buy right, or are they handling it on a case by case? I mean, is there any balance of what you're finding? Most localities are driven by the law. Most localities are addressing this issue right now just like we are. The state code changed last year, and before where they didn't have to accept the tax revenue from short-term rentals, now they do. So a lot of counties are in the same process that we're going through. They're debating this. The counties that do have designated ordinances are mostly in the urban areas, you know, Fairfax County, Fairfax City, places like that. They primarily permit them buy right with a permit. Most of them have an annual renewal or a biannual renewal like we're proposing. They also have a list of restrictions. Some localities have gone as far as to say you can only have X number of rental contracts for the year as set at 60 or 100 nights of rental or things like that. So we didn't go that far with the step, but most localities are permitting them buy right because they're treating them as effectively residential. Further discussion. Anyone? Yes, sir. Okay, Bob. All these events, regulations jab up here, the reporting of that, you know, we always talk about all these violations and so forth and so on. So we have these things going on. So who's reporting the violations? Neighbors? That would be in some cases we've had people inquiring saying, hey, I want to start this. Can I do it? And we've said we don't really have a mechanism to do it right now. We're in the process of doing an ordinance amendment. Others have been, hey, I think my neighbor is doing one. What is the county doing about it? And we've directed them, hey, we've required them to get a business license. We're in this process right now. We have not received, with the exception of the speakers earlier, widespread complaints about this use. Most people don't know they're out there. In fact, we didn't realize how many there were until we got the report from the commission of revenue and said, hey, there's no business license. We have a commission of revenue that said, hey, there's 25 right now. Who will do the enforcement? When you get complaints, who's the enforcement department? Our department, planning and development. We have a zoning administrator inspector, and they would investigate complaints as it pertains to access, parking, noise, other things that we are able to regulate under our ordinance. All prepared to handle all that? Seems to me like that's going to be a pretty big bag of worms for you guys. Taking on what you've already taken on. Absolutely. And we appreciate the question and you keeping us in mind in that respect. We consider that going into this when we brought it to the board for a work session, and we feel that doing these by right would be more manageable than processing all 25 to 30 of them as conditional uses. So it's we had to figure out a way to somehow legalize the businesses, given what changed in the tax code. And we feel this is probably the least burdensome of them. While still maintaining some manner of control over the process. Does that answer your question, sir? Okay. Further discussion. Mr. Dime. Mr. McCarthy. First, Mr. Williams. And Mr. McCarthy, both of you. So if a road, a private road is considered to be a driveway, and you made a comment before on 20 to 30 items, can you break that down to, you know, between party A and party B? The question that I ask for Mr. Pearson is going to be, are there any restrictions on party A or B? So here we're talking about a short-term rental. But if you said I wanted to go and build a manufacturing plant or something of that nature, I know I'm being absurd. At what point in time does that shared road then change if it's by right, Mr. McCarthy? At what point does it change or does it change if party A is a residence and party B says I want to have a major commercial property? I'll give you my preliminary answer and then look to Mr. Williams for confirmation. But we, in general, do not deal in any context with determining what the language of these private easements, private roads, or otherwise is. And those are entirely private matters between landowners. So it's silent? Our ordinances are, yes. Not necessarily. Every easement itself is interpreted based on the language of the easement and the deed in which it's recorded. So every easement could be. . . Unique, like a snowflake, because it's different for every property. So that's why I say this is such a unique property right, between the neighbors, that for us to come in and try and put some cookie-cutter provision on it, we're going to make a total mess with this provision, in my opinion. And it's the landowners who can negotiate those things with regard to the use of their property. So Mr. Williams, you were shaking your head. Comment? No, I was agreeing. Just that. easement depends on its own language and usually the rights of the parties to that easement are not something that the county gets involved in if they have a dispute they can take it to the circuit court so then in the example we had earlier between two parties to either those parties so you have one part of those residential you have the one party that was the Airbnb does the party that was residential have any actions to take against the other parties so that the use of that shared driveway is you know low traffic etc or or not I don't have the I don't have the easement language in front of me and I can't give a legal opinion about somebody's private rights okay so mr. McCarthy my question to you might be does that mean in certain situations we go back to a CUP we get to look at each one on an individual basis not I'm just asking the question and I think you're making a mess of things but we if you go back think about how we got to this point to begin with in my opinion we asked how many complaints had there been about these airbnbs up to the date when we had our retreat and the answer was none most of these are out in the middle of the woods they're little cabins they're not in residential areas the reason people are coming to Frederick County is because they want to enjoy the nature and the outdoors so they're not in you know the middle of Redbud district you know renting a house in most cases now that's not to say 20 years from now that may not still hold true which I believe is why the county administration came to us and said do we want to sort of get ahead of this thing but what I want to be sure of is that we're not taking a non-issue and turning it into a major issue because we're imposing restrictions upon people's individual property rights because we're trying to head off something that doesn't even exist at this point the existing language here which includes the concurrence do you have a problem with that or is that satisfactory to you mr. McCarthy language in the current I have a big problem with it okay you do absolutely yeah okay I'm not saying that's not true but I'm saying that's not true. I'm not saying that's not true. I'm not saying that's not true. Your problem is with owner A being able to veto essentially owner B. Not only that we're also gonna be then objectively saying okay we the staff is going to be saying okay now I have to look up and find out who the other owners are and then I have to confirm that those owners actually signed something is it gonna be a notarized document is that gonna be recorded someplace we're we're opening Pandora's box here and as an attorney who deals in real estate I understand this is gonna just be a nightmare if we go forward with this restriction. Okay. I see heads nodding over there. My problem with go down with the supervisor Graver and I know supervisor Dunn struggling with it and I hear you miss McCarthy we have a private road and the folks who have that road maintain that road take care of that road the people that buy that property on that road know that's a private road. Okay. They bought their house there knowing it's a private road and I understand the Pandora's box but also look at it and say gee whiz you buy a residence now you've changed your mind and you'd like to open up in this case a Airbnb some other kind of business or whatever our road wasn't designed for that and I'm talking about Wayne's Lane which is in Opecum. There are I know there's dirt roads all through and everything else but I just just have a hard time with with I don't want to take away property rights but also think that you have to protect the rights of the people that have the properties they are already. And they have a mechanism for that Bob and that's to go to a lawyer and go to court and defend your rights and your property. It's no different than the guy who rides his dirt bike. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I can go to the guy that rides his dirt bikes on my dirt road through my property and rips it up. I can go say well that wasn't the intent of the easement. I can hire a lawyer I can say it's not worth hiring them. I'm gonna sit here and deal with it but everybody that owns property with an easement on it has to deal with these same issues and it's not the government that typically steps in it's a judge and a couple lawyers that figure it out. Okay. Staff I think we've probably beat this dog enough tonight and I do not think we're ready to send it forward to public hearing. Let's try again at a point in time. Unless you have other ideas. We had discussed one additional option because we kind of anticipated this conversation to some extent. And a consideration for the board to make sure that we're tracking in a direction that gives these businesses options to get right with the county would be to, if they are on a private easement, to require a conditional use permit. Only for those circumstances. I know it's imperfect. And I think that's why Mr. Klein said, as we debated this, that it's hard to come to any form of a perfect solution for it. But regardless of the circumstance, we would seek direction from the board on how you'd like us to proceed in preparing something that we can continue to push forward. President McArthur. I wouldn't have a problem with that with one extra provision, which would be that only the dominant estate has, to get the permission to use that. Are you talking about to go through the CUP? So if I'm a landowner and I have the survey in a state, meaning I own the land that was intact, I'm giving the people behind me the right. I shouldn't have to go get a CUP if the guy down the street that doesn't have a driveway across his land didn't have to get a CUP. So I think if you have a survey or a dominant easement, meaning you're borrowing someone else's land, then you go through the CUP. But if you gave your neighbor the access, why should you have to then go get permission from them or go through a CUP process, which is more onerous, more costly just because you want to use your driveway? Turn to Mr. Williams. That's still going to be a lot of detail work for staff to get into because it's staff's basically going to have to interpret easement documents. I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, it's creating quite a little operation. I think our duty is to protect our citizens from our own folly, so if we're going to do something like this and it puts the burden on the staff, then we, we put that burden on the staff, but I don't think we should burden the citizen because we don't want to burden our staff. That would be my opinion. Mr. Chairman, there's approximately 25 of these short-term units. Other than the one we talked about tonight, are most of the others on, you know, public roads where it's simply a driveway that's owned by, like, like my house, if I decided to make it into an Airbnb, there's just one driveway, that's a driveway. Yeah, we did a real quick looking today, non, non-detail oriented again, because we would have to go in and look at, you know, deeds in order to figure it out, but we think there's at least four or five out of the, out of the whole group that are on a similar circumstance. I mean, I concur with you. I'm not prepared to make a vote on this today, but perhaps you break this into a couple parts. The one part you break into where you're off of a public roadway, it's a house, you know, I own this house. I also own the neighborhood, my next door neighbor's house. I'm using that as a Airbnb. There's no shared driveway at all. And then perhaps for the fewer situations there, we come back and work on something that is, is fair. My words, not anybody else's to respect Mr. McCarthy's comments on a land use, respect the gentleman, the people that spoke about, you know, messing up that shared driveway, maybe have to, but I'm not, I'm not prepared to go forward with this today at all. Yeah, move on. So thank you, sir. No, sir, not until later. All right. Board liaison reports. Are there any? Yes, sir. Please. The public safety committee met and I have some information to bring forward. Public safety emergency communications has received accreditation with the Virginia Office of Emergency Medical Services for their performance in emergency medical dispatch. The dispatchers received this accreditation due to the ability to meet the highest level of performance and delivery of the EMD. And then on May 19th of this year, three of our emergency communication officers are being awarded the team of the year award by the Virginia Association of Public Safety Communications officials for their stellar performance on 1226 2001 during an active shooter event. And I just wanted to pass those on. We have a great group of folks there and congratulations to them. Absolutely incredibly good news. All right. This is a portion of the meeting for the board to accept citizen comments on any issue they might like to bring to the board. If you have something you're welcome to. We can't have a discussion. It's it's to listen to your comments. Earl case of Peckin. Yes, sir. Um, I just want to make a comment about the private drive thing. Why can't you all just say you got to enter from a state maintained road? Why do you got to put all anything else with it? Enter from a state maintained road that takes all the private individuals out of it. So that's that's my only comment and thought about what was being discussed. Thank you for your comments, sir. Sir, anyone else? Yes, ma'am. More comments. Mr McCarthy, you're worried about opening up a can of worms. Guess what? It's already opened up. Um, I don't understand why the residents living on Wayne's Lane have to spend the additional money, time and frustration dealing with the business traffic from this STL. On Wayne's Lane, the owner will not be living there. He's going to be moving soon, and then we're left to deal with all the issues. The biggest problem is obviously the driveway. It's one lane, as you all know. Very narrow. Gravel. Cars cannot pass. Cars have to go into private driveways, yards, and that's just not fair. We as taxpayers are worried about the citizens, the taxpayers. We are taxpayers, and we feel that we have the right to be considered in this decision-making. To me, I would like to see the SDL halt the business until this is all resolved, because we are being very inconvenienced, and it's a mess. It really is. And like I've asked before, if you all want to come look at the road in person, I know you have pictures, but you need to come down the road in person and see what it's like. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Sure. Yeah, Mike Shattroth, and to your saying, where you don't want to make it a public, you know, you're not going to be able to make it public. I'm not going to be able to make it public. I'm not going to be able to make it public. I'm not going to be able to make it public. I said there's only five houses back there. First point is a mile. There's six houses back there. My aunt lives, let me think, one, two, three, four. There's five houses back there with two houses to own part of the right-of-way. It's not like he has that problem. Anytime he needed to speak to my aunt who lived in South Carolina, who holds the deed, he's always contacted her. He's always. He's gotten in contact with her. So it's not that big a deal. We're not talking 30 people. We're talking maybe eight, nine households, and they're all right there within his. He can see four of them. He passes by just about every one of them except for two. It's not that big a deal. He can get to everybody. When he wants to, he can get to them. It's not 30, 40, 50 people. We're talking, like I said, maybe nine drawings at the most, and it's within a mile of everything. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else? Yes, ma'am. I got a question. Who's going to pay for the extra wear and tear and the gravel on that driveway besides us? He won't be there. Who's going to pay for the extra wear and tear on that driveway? That driveway's only 10 foot. It's only 10 foot wide. It can only handle so much. That's my question. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment portion. All right. I have an issue that I'd like to have the board's help with. It would appear that we have high probability of an opportunity to meet with our federal representatives. On July the 18th, which is a Monday at 12 noon, it could fall apart. But asking the board whether they want to give it a try, see if we can work it out. And I'm looking for input from each of you. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. So back in April, Ms. Slaughter and I attended a meeting on Frederick Water. At that meeting, Senator Warner was there. And I raised the issue on Route 37, the fact that it had been there for 40 years on paper. And we had a slight discussion on that. And he said to me, it's a good comment, good comment, and I will go and have a staff person there. At the time, I was thinking of meeting together with John Bishop. Subsequent to that, then I had a conversation with Congressman Klein at another event. And we were just talking about roads in this area. And he said, if you have such a meeting, I would like to come. So Congressman Klein has said that he would like to attend. And we're meeting on July 18th at noon. We've had Route 37 for 40 years along the books. If this is an opportunity to get federal funding into here, that would be a plus. Congressman Klein is on the Appropriations Committee. So he has a say on that. Congressman Wexton is on the Transportation Committee. She's our current congresswoman. And we're in this transition phase. But if this is an opportunity to bring federal dollars into... into this discussion, it's, in my opinion, would be worthwhile. And I think we ought to see if we can make that happen. That was the answer, one way or another, I was looking for. Thank you, sir. I would agree with Supervisor Dunn. Others? I would be able to attend. I can't attend, but I think it's definitely worthwhile. Yes. I cannot attend, but I think it's certainly worthwhile. Okay. I can attend. I would just like to add a little bit to what Supervisor Dunn stated. At our last Transportation Committee meeting, there was some discussion about the safety issues at 307 and all of the issues that we are seeing with traffic backing up. And if 37 could be developed, it would really alleviate a lot of the traffic issues on the east side of town, specifically between the 307 and the 310 mile per hour. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that it is imperative that we have that discussion and see if we can get some federal funds along with some of the monies that we set aside for this upcoming budget year for the first time in 12 years. This board was able to set aside funds for transportation-related issues, which I think is commendable. So I think that we need to come hat in hand asking for some of that federal funds to supplement what we set aside and see if we can't make this happen. Mr. Ludwig? I would be very likely to be there. I'd make every effort. We will try to set that up. That was, I think, the only question I had. Does anyone else have anything? Yes, sir. Coming up on this weekend and during the first of the week is Memorial Day. It's a great time. It's a great time to attend services in our community to memorialize those who gave it all for our country. We wouldn't have what we have if it wasn't for these men and women who went and did what they did to save America and the United States. God bless them. I think it's the least we can do to show up and say thank you for your service. Thank you for doing what you've done. Thank you for your service. Thank you for your service. Thank you for your service. And I'll be sure to visit you in the next few months. Thank you. I know I'll be better off. Thank you. Thank you. speaking at some of the events in town and like to see a good turnout it would be great to see that happen thank you thank you sir anyone else nice chairman McCarthy mr. chairman a movie adjourn there's two adjourns our second second second all those in favor aye thank everyone for their time and attention will stand adjourned you
