Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2024-10-23
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=246
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you The October 23, 2024 meeting of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors is hereby called to order. We begin our meeting as usual with an invocation. However, I want to make one mention. We had planned to have Dr. Scott Priest, the senior pastor of Restoration Fellowship Church here today, but I've been told that someone very important to him and to the operation of his church has passed away. And I know this is a pastor, priest. So I offer my condolences for him and his church. And I want to thank Pastor Brad Hill from Winchester Bible Church for filling in on short notice. It is greatly appreciated, sir. And you haven't done this before. Please come here. The microphone is on right here on the other side to the microphone. You can raise it or lower it to the right height for you and lead us in an invocation. We're going to pray in the mic. Oh, Lord, Father, we thank you for the opportunity to be here tonight, Lord, to to just glorify all Lord that you do. And through this county, Lord, I just pray for all the decisions that are made here tonight by the supervisor. All those things of concern by the county Lord, be rightly put in front of you, Lord, and that you would give guidance and direction and wisdom. Lord, without you. We can do nothing. And I just pray your presence would just fill this place. But we just pray God again to give us Lord the direction guide this ship Lord and Lord, I pray God that the destination when we get there lower would be as perfect as it could be. And so Lord, I know there are a lot of issues that really concern folks. So that I just pray for grace. Also pray God for mercy. And Lord, again, thank you. Thank you. Again, we thank you for what you're going to do here tonight. And we give you all the glory in Jesus name. Amen. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor. Vice Chair. Yes, if we all could please stand and face the flag and join me in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Thank you all. Now to adoption of the agenda. Board how should we handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and second. Any discussion? Hearing none. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We have an agenda. Item 5. Item 5, citizen comments. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? Mr. Chairman, no one has signed up for this comment period. They're waiting for another public part of the agenda, I'm sure. So if there's anything anyone wants to address on the agenda, there's very little other than a public hearing, but any of the other items this is your chance. Seeing no one, I'll close citizen comments. Item 6, the consent agenda. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Very good. For the public, the consent agenda was printed and posted. We'll proceed with a roll call vote. One second. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye. The consent agenda is approved. Board of Supervisor comments, do we have any? Supervisor Jewell? I had the privilege of attending the Northwestern Community Services Behavioral Health Agency yesterday, their 50th anniversary. They have five locations, which one's in Winchester and one's in Frederick County, and they just provide wonderful services, and it was just a great opportunity. So, thank you. Thank you. Any other comments from the Board? Well, we're brief on comments from the public and the Board so far. Very good. We move quickly. County officials, nothing from them either. We move to Item 9, 9A, the Hanley Regional Library Board. We have a term expiring and an appointment to make. Supervisor Liero, I believe you're the one who's going to be doing that. Supervisor Leero? Aye. Supervisor Leero? Aye. Supervisor Leero? Aye. Supervisor Leero? Aye. Supervisor Leero? Aye. Supervisor Leero? Aye. Supervisor Leero? Aye. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'd like to make a motion that we reappoint Mr. Jay Foreman. His term is expiring on November the 30th of 24. This will be for a full four-year term. He is eligible and willing for reappointment to a full term. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? So I'd like to bring up a subject if you could, Mr. Farner. So I have two slides. It's nothing personal, but I will not support this reappointment. And that's because Mr. Foreman was on the school board and was a big piece in bringing deep equity into our school system. Deep equity has been debated before. I won't lengthen this meeting or go through great details, but it has a 90% overlap with critical race theory. And I've got a copy of the book and I'm happy to share it. I'm happy to review it, but I don't think we want to tonight. I don't think it's appropriate for our school system nor for our county. And therefore, I don't think materials like that are appropriate for our public library either. This particular investment was paid for by taxpayer dollars. And it was misrepresented to this board as being only as teacher only training, just materials for the teachers. And it was misrepresented. Thank you. It was misrepresented to us, to all of us who were on the board at the time, two different ways. One of them is teacher only. So we were told at the time this is training for teachers. No children are taught race consciousness, privilege, to evaluate their oppression class or any of these things. However, the I'm sorry. Do not disrupt the meeting. This was dishonorably represented to us by the school system in two ways. One is that was only training for teachers. Well, first of all, anyone who studied critical race theory knows that some of these materials are taught to teachers. They can be infused into the classroom subjects that your children learn. They are not originally meant to. They don't have to be classes for children to to affect them. But if you go to the next slide. In fact, they were taught to children. And that was absolute mistruth that we were told the public was told and that this board was told on your left two columns on the screen. The leftmost column is a list of students that were in fact trained in deep equity. The names, of course, I've redacted and the middle columns you can't read very well. Are there their schools they're from? They include, I believe, all our middle schools and high schools. And I haven't revisited since the last time I went over this topic last January about elementary schools. I know many, many teachers from many elementary schools were also trained. The middle column are more sheets of these are all students. Attendance and training for the class. So I believe that it is not appropriate for our school system or for our library. I believe that a great majority of the citizens of this county. Would agree if they've reviewed the materials and I've heard from a great number of parents to that effect as well. So because of that, I'll be voting no on this appointment. Thank you. I would just add to that. I actually went to Frederick County schools back in 2019 and acquired that book because I didn't believe it. And so I bought it myself. I have it and I'm disappointed that and I believe we did brought the same discussion in January to this board. But I'm disappointed. I'm disappointed that nobody else has applied but I will not be. I would vote no on this appointment as well. Thank you for bringing light to that. Thank you. And I left out one important point and that is that this is the topic that Supervisor Liero before he was a supervisor brought to the board's attention. He brought it to a board member who then came to my house to present it to the public. We were allowed our. Our living room to be used for. A public meeting and that was I thought going to be the extent of my involvement in. Local politics. But that raised an uproar among the people and people willing to knock on doors and make changes. And that was even before all the abuses that Loudoun County has suffered had become public. So it just snowballed from there. So I think Supervisor Liero for having brought this to the board's attention. At the time. Any other supervisor comments. Very good. Hearing none. We'll move to a roll call vote on this appointment. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. No. Vice chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Chair votes no. But the appointment is made. That is 9A. Please we need to proceed we have a lot of people waiting. What we're going to do is. We're going to have a motion and a motion is. To be agreed on. We're going to have a motion and a second. Second. We have a lot of people who want to speak tonight. Item 10, none, 11. Wait a minute. Am I looking at the right? Yeah. Very good. I'm looking at the wrong agenda here. 10A, Finance Committee. Vice Chair. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, the Finance Committee met on October 16th at 8 a.m. The first item related to finance was the NRADC Superintendent request a jail fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $50,000 pending grant award. This amount represents grant funds from DCJS for the Medicated Assisted Treatment Program. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Do we need a roll call vote for each spending item? Yes, sir. Very good. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. The Chair votes aye. Next item. The Community Corrections Chief requests a jail fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $164,055. This amount represents additional grant funds from DCJS for a new Deputy Chief position, a part-time probation officer, and other operating expenses. This request has been approved. The grant is approved by the Jail Authority. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? I'd just like to ask the Chair of our Finance Committee. So these first two items are grants. You didn't use the magic words, no local funds required. But I believe no local tax dollars are required for that item or this one. Is that correct? That is correct, sir. Thank you very much. We'll move to a roll call vote. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Chair votes aye. Next item, the Sheriff requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $7,988. This amount represents an auto claim and will go towards the purchase of a new vehicle. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none. Jesus, please. I wonder who has the due the money together? walked into our PU block and efficiưởng the Holden one. You're the same. You can use yourを Adjust the Holden the Hall display Champlain This got it discussion. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chair votes aye. Next item, the VJCCCA request a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $5,586. This amount represents funds that were not spent in fiscal year 2024 to be returned to the state. The Finance Committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Very good. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye. Next item, the Frederick County Public Schools Executive Director of Finance request a general fund and a school operating fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $172,872. Second, in accordance with the C Independency Act, it is very wrong to hope that a quiero the PresidentICA request aodylgy We all agree that the cumin issued a federal campaign to ک for wood. As something that Joe Webb said, Indiana State is an international country. So every major state has an idea of no local funds when they approved use of wood, either the county, mental health situation or their health situation. It has the right toата we worried about resource allocation. An mêmes as it relates to student, differentiation, frei, or privacy, according to the directest accounts filing to their independent state's E δεν係실 si רätă ca fishes meg provided h gekart. clear to those accounts and would need to be reappropriated, but they were originally unspent restricted grant funds. So I will make a motion to that effect. We have a motion. Do we have a second? I'll second it. We have a motion to second. Yeah, I'll just add that all those, they have temporarily become local funds. They were grants and they are restricted. We may not make other use of them other than to roll them forward for this purpose. And without any other comments, we'll proceed to a vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chair votes aye. The next item, the Frederick County Public Schools Executive Director of Finance request a general fund and a school capital projects fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $1,615,212. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent, unobligated, surplus from the fiscal year 2024 school operating fund. Again, the same scenario. The books, of course, are cleared out at the end of the year. This money rolls over into fund balance and the school has come to us with a request to use those funds to address school capital, which we had received a list of in our packet. So I would make a motion. The Finance Committee recommends approval and I would so move. We have a motion. Do we have a second? I'll second. Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion? Quick comment. Supervisor Dunn? To the schools, I appreciate you not spending money and having carried forward. So I do appreciate the fact that you're going through trying to be diligent and if you have extra money at the end of the year, you're saying fine, we haven't used it this year, look forward to carry forward. So I appreciate the financial due diligence. Thank you. Very good. Any other comments? Hearing none, we have a motion and a second. We'll move to roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye. Mr. Chairman, that concludes the Finance Committee report. Thank you very much. We move to item 11A, an amendment to the 2024-2025 fiscal year budget. Mr. Bolhofer? Sir? Thank you. It's easier to speak from up here than it is down there in the corner, just in case there's any questions. The information I'm going to present to you, you've seen before. These are from earlier presentations, with a few exceptions. Brief history. In July 17th, we had the joint Board of Supervisors school board meeting on capital projects where both boards attended. On July 29th, this board received the official requests from the school for the three capital projects. And on September 18th, the Board of Supervisors had a work session regarding these projects in which they reach a consensus to send it to the request to this public, to this meeting for a public hearing on the three projects. These are the three voting items on the agenda tonight. You have an appropriation resolution, you have a bond resolution, and you have a reimbursement resolution. The appropriation resolution, this is where the board actually takes steps to appropriate the funds. And if you look at this, you're appropriating. If you agree with all three of these projects and vote for them, it's 151,600,000 for our fourth high school 22,400,000 for the Middletown Elementary School expansion, 13,600,000 for the middle school, and then the $6,600,000 for the Jordan Springs Elementary School expansion. A part of that will come from school proffers in the amount of $7,463,418.70. If indeed this was approved in this completely as this is, the next item you would go to would be the bond resolution. The bond resolution actually approves the bonds. The bond resolution in the agenda, is for 180,136,581.30. And the final item on your agenda tonight regarding the schools is a reimbursement resolution. This resolution allows you to use your current funds to start the projects and then be reimbursed from your bond proceeds at a later date. You cannot do that unless you pass this resolution. This is standard in what has been done in August. This is standard in what has been done in August. This is standard in what has been done in August. all the school borrowing projects in the past. These are the items that came from that earlier meeting from the school board. There's nothing new here. These are the same diagrams. Project one is the Middletown Elementary expansion. These were the facts stated. It's been updated for the current enrollment, has been adjusted. All the other numbers are the same. Excuse me. Current capacity is 527. Current enrollment is 644 students. Calculated capacity post expansion is 786 students. The only item on this that changed is the current enrollment. The total cost for this project would be the 22,402,000. $200,000. Second item is the Jordan Springs Elementary expansion. As I stated, you've seen these pictures and diagrams before. I just put them up here just to refresh everyone's memory. Current capacity is 500. The current enrollment is 655. Calculated capacity post expansion is 737. As I stated earlier, the estimated preliminary budget is $13,600,000.影 �her survive fire stress orders. Future $158 million increase in Em ensures that our social besides now def á as I stated earlier, the expectediron ряд increase in desired going on to be a em SENe plus $58 million.事業基金 BD2 is criticized for being healthy, high- nei exhilarating, healthy keywords are being teeped together as well by International The preliminary project budget for this project is $151,600,000. One last item is that our last workshop and a couple of workshops previously it was requested. Could Frederick County use a consultant to monitor or use for value engineering for this project? I have talked with the superintendent from the schools and they have invited the county to be a part of the process and bring their experts if they so choose. This would be done by using an on-call as needed consultant. The county uses this all the time. We've had them in the past. We're in the process of going through the process now to hire a consultant for general architecture and engineering services. Some new language has been added into the RFP where it states specifically third party review of public school proposals for new school construction, renovation or expansion. This professional could be used for other projects as well including the fire station as you know. You're allowed to do this. These projects, the budget amount of money can go up to $2 million for the initial term of the contract. The term of contracts for these on-call contractors, first term is three years. During that three-year period, it cannot exceed $2 million over the life. That's for all projects. That's not one project. There's a limit on the project itself. Over the life of all terms, which could be several terms, it cannot exceed $5 million. This will be ready in the next few weeks. We'll go out for a request for the proposals and then the county's objective is to select at least one but hopefully two or three of these to have on board. We have on-call experts for several projects. We've used them in the past. In the past, we used ZMM. It used to be ZMM. We do our A&E. We also have them for construction purposes, engineering purposes, and other specialties. That's a brief overview. Thank you. Do we have any questions for Mr. Bobhoffer on the presentation? One question. Supervisor Dunn. Your presentation here was for 1250 in the number of students. Does that expand to potentially up to 1600? We had that discussion. The thought process was that it was going to be expanded. Is that still true? I believe yes. The school can be expandable. There was another option and the school did go with the lower option of that amount to keep that amount at $151 million. I believe it is expandable and the answer is yes. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes, Mr. Chair. Mr. County Administrator, I was wondering if we could get somebody from the school division who might be present to just expand a little bit on that core. The difference between the 1250 and the 1250. I'm assuming that means cafeteria and other items will be built to be able to accommodate 1650. Hey. Good evening. Good evening, Mr. Chair, Board of Supervisors. Mr. Leroy, that is correct. The space in the building, the core, was expanded. That is correct. The space in the building, the core, will be able to accommodate if we have to expand and we specifically worked with the architects to have space to expand if we do get to a point which based on our numbers it looked like we will. We will expand so we don't have to expand the cafeteria and the other aspects of that particular building. We are trying to think ahead in regards to that. Yes, sir. Thank you. Absolutely. While you are here, Dr. Hummer, I have a question for Mr. Bauhofer. Sure. It involves you as well. Yes. I will wait. You have any questions, Supervisor Dunn? Yes. I have a question for you. What about hallways? Are the hallways and the auditoriums, et cetera, designed for 1600? Correct. Okay. Thank you. Yes. Any other questions from the Board? Hearing none, I will go to mine. For this RFP, that is to enable the county to have engineering services to review. This is perhaps the most expensive capital project we have ever approved. I would like to get confirmation that you had spoken to Dr. Hummer and, oh, well, he is here. I can just ask him directly and rephrase my question. That is, will you accommodate, should this Board go that direction, our consultant advisory firm on engineering to participate in grounds and buildings meetings and any other contractor meetings that you have as you move forward with a construction project? Should we approve it? Absolutely. Yes. Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you. It is important. It is a waste of taxpayer money if we engage it and they do not have full access to view the process. We will do that. We will do that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We will continue the process. We fully understand the aspect of this particular project. It is not only big for our school division but it is big for our community. This is conversations that I had with our school board as well that we want to have full transparency in the development of this project, which would include you and whoever you desire to hire. We are more than happy to work with you all throughout that process. Thank you very much. Absolutely. Thank you both. Thank you. Thanks, man. So this is a public hearing. Ms. Hulme. Phillips, what was the final count of people who had signed up? We have 28 persons signed up. I will call the name of the first person and the person to come right behind so that you can be queued up to help us move along more quickly. So we're going to do something slightly differently here tonight. In the past, subjects such as this drew a huge amount of attention. People wanted to speak. And then there were a large number of people who would game the system a little bit and not sign up. And we always ask if there's anyone still here who wants to speak. So then we have a bunch more who would come forward to speak, wanting to, I guess, speak last in the process. As a result, the meetings drug on well into the night. If we go past 11 p.m., we're formally required to stop and take a vote. And this whole issue could potentially be tabled until the next meeting if we voted to finish at the time. So I talked to the parliamentarian. And when we have more than an hour's worth of people signed up to speak or that we expect to speak, we'll have a meeting. We do have the power to change at the last moment. And we're going to do that today. And we're going to limit speaking time to two minutes a person. That way everyone gets a chance to speak. And everyone equally on any side of this issue gets to be heard. So if you rehearsed anything at three minutes, please think how you can get it down to two minutes. I hope you're not first. Sorry. The first person is going to have to do that on the fly. And to keep this moving, I'm going to be pretty strict about moving people forward at the end of their two minutes. So in that case, Ms. Phillips, if we could begin. Jay Martz followed by Pam Kennedy. And everyone, Mr. Martz and everyone after, please start with your name and your magisterial district. Thank you. Yes. Okay. Three minutes I practiced today. My name is Jay Martz. I'm from the Gainesboro District. Thank you, Chairman Ludwig and Supervisor Lockridge for hearing. I'm here to speak on the 180 budget amendment. It seems the problem we have is a population increase, a symptom that is overcrowding of infrastructure. Perhaps we should address the problem before we throw dollars at the symptoms. I oppose any current funding to the fourth high school in this county. I would support additions to several schools as needed. We need to pay down our current debt and grow our capital account. The county cannot afford to build this huge government project, increasing spending, taking on large debt, and expanding bureaucracy in this inflationary environment. It is a great risk. I would expect a large tax increase would soon follow. I have lost confidence in the school board's ability to keep the taxpayers' interest in mind with these large government construction projects dating back to the transportation center. Look at the middle school at Linden Drive, the luxury Gainesboro Middle School, and the giveaway of Ehler. It is easy to recognize the unwillingness of the administration to give serious consideration to make additions to existing middle and high schools. And especially the parity pushback on building the many amenities associated with the new school. We need to seriously consider consolidation of athletic fields, courts, and stadiums, perhaps under parks and rec. Items like auditoriums, performance arts centers, media centers should be scaled back to general purpose additions. Additionally, I see no problems with modular classrooms. Many Frederick County residents live in modular homes and take vacations in trailers. I was previously asked by the governor of the state of Florida to address the problem of the lack of access to public schools. I said, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I'm pleased to see school choice on your 2025 legislative agenda. We must entertain new ideas and new ways to conduct operations. We need to find ways to make funding available for school choice options. In conclusion, my bank lobby and drive-through are crowded. My grocery store and parking lot are crowded. I can't seem to get a quick appointment at the hospital. And shall I begin to discuss the transportation infrastructure when it comes to priorities for spending? traffic fatalities in our district so far this year keep this in perspective and consider your spending of 187 million I try thank you sir first speaker I appreciate you Pam Kennedy followed by Julie Kirk Pam Kennedy Gainesboro district thank you what's the impact of space on us as people put simply we learn the skills needed for life in a democracy speaking clearly listening compromise in short functioning as members of the community if we put students into schools that are overcrowded there are several very well documented results social disorganization aggression and competition for scarce resources which are very costly it's already well known that the county's three high schools are beyond capacity you that every month every year we delay construction of the much-needed fourth high school crowding will increase and costs of construction will rise why are we waiting to quote Dewey education is not preparation for life education is life itself let us provide our children with the best start in life that we can thank you thank you Commissioner days call of the Richding school for sorry former school district and later in the school union we will be announcing the approach that affordable housing Thermalisation and Cal eden Everson Hahahah 2006 buildings of a smaller scale from 200 square feet to nine haunted by the канал of hop near plenty of city stressed the base for the suspension of åker to sìold a great descobplismo ambiente emplopaspur tem Jobo back to campus Our легate we say thank you I stand before you and speak this evening. Today's students are tomorrow's leaders and community members, especially when they feel that they are part of a community that puts them first and cares. The impact that is being felt in our high schools will only continue to get worse if we do not choose to take action tonight. Even if the fourth high school is approved this evening, it will take four or five years for construction to be completed, during which time things will continue to be more overcrowded. I asked my husband today who has lived in our home for 37 years how many times he had been sticker shocked by the tax bill. His answer, none. I said, no, come on, seriously. 1993, they opened Sharando. No. Well, what about Millbrook? No. The transportation building? No. Frederick County Middle School, the Taj Mahal? No. My husband looked back at our taxes and not once was he sticker shocked. Our home has appreciated in value. Thank you very much for using our resources wisely. That's what we would want our properties to do, all of us who are members of this community. Every time one of these projects comes up, there are people in our community who do not want to understand how the funding of these projects occurs, who will stand before us and scare us, saying, our taxes are going up 15, 30, 50%. It's not how it works. My husband has been a homeowner in this community. He's been a homeowner for 37 years. My former students, children, and their future children and my grandchildren deserve to live in a community where their education is a priority and resources are used wisely to be prepared for their families that are here and families who move into future homes. Thank you. Amber Frye, followed by Catherine Joville. Hello, gentlemen. I'm here to speak tonight about we tend to attack the wrong people, including this board, and there have been previous Board of Supervisors. I remember when John Nelson wanted to get a fourth high school built. I know Sharando is very overcrowded. It was crowded back in 96 through 98 when I did a lot of long-term subbing there while I was getting my teaching certificate. It's worse now. I can only imagine. My thing is why are many, many developers becoming millionaires in Frederick County, and they're not absorbing more of the costs? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Now we have the new subdivision up on Route 7 by the wastewater treatment plant. Route 11, when I'd gone to the drive-in this summer, is subdivision after subdivision. They're everywhere. Our developers are becoming millionaires. I hear the chatter that palms are greased and stuff. I'm not going to comment on that stuff. I'm not going to comment on that stuff. I don't see it. I don't know it to be fact. But I do know we keep getting bigger. We're turning into Loudoun County. And our growth is just no one's concerned about it. But we have developers becoming millionaires. They should be paying for a lot of this. And I'm not sure who should be handling those decisions. But they are not being held accountable. That is my thing for the board. I appreciate what you all do. And I think you're all here for the right purposes. And maybe I'll make enemies tonight saying this. I think we need a fourth high school. But the developers are getting rich. And no one else is holding them accountable. That's what I want you all to do. Let that stop. They need to start putting money in the coffers. And it's not happening. And we're going to soon be ashburned very quickly. And then we'll eventually need to be like Loudoun County with a school in every neighborhood. And thank you all for the many nights you've been with us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Robert Gallilee followed by Miles Adkins. Robert Gallilee, Bat Creek District. I've come this evening to talk about a situation I've named Roads to Nowhere. And it's the real reason or at least the big reason the developers who run this county want the fourth high school. It's about money, not the kids. If you go over to Pax Ice Cream on Route 50 and make a right, you'll go down Lutheran Church Boulevard. When you get to the end, there's a neighborhood to the left, but the road is built to go straight. It's open Yaccity juntos, on the DJ 하나 de two Lit Funding by don't imagine that all 600 overcrowded students are going to go to this new school. The developers need that school conveniently located right down Route 37 so they can make use of the planned water and sewer expansion into the Roundhill area in accordance with the new Northwest land use plan. The emotional based arguments of student safety and overcrowding are merely propaganda put forth by the developers. Let's focus on school choice because many people will leave the indoctrination camps if they could only afford to. Please vote no. Miles Adkins followed by Darrell Bell. Ken got bigger. Miles Adkins, Shawnee District. How y'all doing tonight? Hey look, everybody knows we're overcrowded and I'm not going to step here and state the obvious. We've talked about that in the past. I'm not going to say that. I'm not going to say that. I'm not going to say that. I'm just going to talk about how we plan on getting it done. As Dr. Hummer came up here and talked, we're going to, we want to work with everybody. We want to work with the county. We want to work with the citizens of the county, get their input and ideas. We're hoping that there's architectural firms, there's contractors out there who reach out to us and put their name in the hat. We want to get the best bang for our buck. We want to do this responsibly. So any ideas that you guys have, we're going to be happy to be able to answer them. I'm going to go ahead and get started and I'll get started. have or any of the citizens out here have you know we're willing to hear that and we want to we want to move forward with this there's been boards in the past your board our board that's kicked this can down the down the road last time we all got together i brought in a spaghettio can you know that can's gotten bigger and the more we push it on down the road the bigger it's going to get and then we won't be able to kick it it's just going to land right here in our laps if if we're going to do this let's do this in our time let's get this done we know we're overcrowded let's get this fixed thank you darryl bell followed by vick canfield good afternoon good evening folks uh thank you very much for allowing us to speak tonight unfortunately i didn't bring my can with me but i'll uh be brief as i can you the only thing that i really have to say honestly is to just please build the fourth high school approve the amendment to the budget approve the bond we need the fourth high school it's not something we've dreamt up it's not something that we want to make money off of it's something that our students need and our teachers need uh we we've heard various people complain about the discipline in our schools a good part of that has to do with the overcrowding we've heard a lot of people complain about the lack of teachers that we're able to get keep or attract and that has still a lot to do with the overcrowding the best thing that we could do for this community would to add that fourth high school so that we can empty out our three overcrowded high schools and provide space for the additional people that are coming it is a safety issue it's not propaganda those trailers are very thin and they're not going to be able to get to the high school that we're going to those trailers are very easily broken into and those trailers will be a danger to students if we have an active shooter on our campuses which in the past not too long ago there was a scare of the same of that sort so i do plead with you to please please approve the fourth high school please approve the funding please approve the bond we want to work with you we don't want to work against you we've had two open we've had one working session together we've we've attended working sessions of yours we want to hear your input we want to hear what you have to say we represent the entire community of frederick county and thusly with you and us together i think we can make a huge difference for our students and for our teachers thank you vick canfield followed by tammy canfield good evening board and nice chat with you again thank you for your time and for your headaches that you tolerate and things it's much appreciated i'd just like to put on record to start with that we are not a democratic government we are a government a republic government and it operates differently we don't operate out of just the sheer numbers of people we have a republic to represent the whole of the people and the areas that they're in i'm going to go ahead and give you a little bit of a brief introduction to the board i'm going to go ahead and give you a brief introduction to the board to help get views mów mcbritte resting at bayern school who's this someone important thank you murt pedals the president that's phil charges wilson juventus we need a budget for things. But so while it may be easy many times to get money, it's often very hard to pay it back. It doesn't come back with paying it back straight. It comes back with paying it back by interest. To think that we will not be, we will not have our taxes raised, it's just not very thoughtful. It's almost got to happen when you're looking at this kind of a budget. And that's just this year. Our schools keep getting more because we keep allowing more developers to come in. And true, the developers should be paying for much of this. They should be paying for the roads they build. They should be paying for the school also. If you look at Loudoun County, you'll find that that is the very sort of thing that does happen there. They aren't allowed to develop without putting money in toward these very same things. I would ask you to consider the same things. Thank you for your time and hear my voice. Tammy Canfield, followed by Deanne Kinney. Tammy Canfield, the Stonewall District. And I agree with a lot of what the first speaker spoke of. I think that we should, I'm not against the fourth high school, but I do think that we should be a little bit more responsible on the budgeting of it and the whole goal of it. Like, do we really need to have tennis courts? I graduated from a school. We never had tennis. We never had soccer. I got a good A. I got a good A. I got a good A. I got a good A. I got a good A. I got a good A. I got a good A. I got a good A. I got a good A. And I think that we should be more responsible on the budget and the education. So I think we need to, and I agree, the Frederick County Parks and Rec has some great programs going. I don't think education and athletics has to go one-on-one. I know that a lot of people think that they do. But if we can't afford it, we can't afford it. Or maybe share fields. That is a possibility, too. And a project this size, I think we really need to have a submitted blueprint. architecture firm first as the first step so that we can actually see really what is the cost going to be rather than just say, okay, here's $150 million here, $22 million here. It's almost as if they're not paying taxes in our county. And higher taxes is an oppression of the people. I don't know about the rest of y'all, but we're having a hard time making ends meet this year. And I think a lot of other people are too. So whatever you can do to not raise the taxes, and if we can legally halt the increase of our population and say, hey, wait a second, developers, we can't let you continue to build in this county until we get the infrastructure in place. Let's get the cart before the horse, or let's get the horse before the cart so that we can actually be responsible with other people's money, the taxpayers' money. Thank you. Dean, Kimmy. Followed by Joseph Brand. Good evening. Deanne Kenney from the Gainesboro District. I have been for the last two years either watched or been to every school board meeting and every board of supervisors meeting that has anything to do with the school system in whatever capacity. And what I have found is our county is growing. We all know that. And we can't hide from that fact. We can't take it all back. It's here. And there's nothing that we can do about it. But we have to face it. And we have to face the issue that is before us. And the issue is our schools are overcrowded. And I did a little bit. Twenty years, the fourth high school has been on the CIP for Frederick County Public Schools. It wasn't a high priority back then because we weren't growing like we are now. But we have grown. But they saw 20 years ago that the need was going to be there. And we have just buried our heads in the sand to the fact that this might go away. And some of the people on this board are hoping that we're going to be able to do that. And I think that's a big part of the problem. And I think that's a big part of the problem. And I think that's a big part of the problem. And I think that's a big part of the problem. And I think that's a big part of the problem. And I'm hoping that Richmond is going to give us the golden egg that we want and allow for vouchers so that we can, you know, take the burden off of the public schools. Well, that may happen. But right now, we have to face what we have right now. And right now, what we have are overcrowded schools. And it's not going to go away. And it's going to be four years or so before a school will be finished. And if they do give you vouchers, they still got to build those schools. And if they do charter schools, private schools, whatever, they have to build them too. So it's a long time from now before this can be addressed by Richmond. We have to deal with what's here right now. And that's what your all's job is. Frederick County Public Schools has put together, and I've been and I have listened to every one of those meetings. They have given you every bit of information that you could ever want about anything. And yet we still just can't seem to bring it together. To make a decision. Tonight's the night. We can't not wait. Joseph Brand. Followed by Justin Mistretta. Good evening, Chairman. Joseph Brand from Stonewall District. Good evening, Ms. McCann Slaughter. You're being asked tonight to approve spending and debt issuance to pay for that spending. That debt will need to be repaid, and that's what we're going to do. We're going to be on a schedule, and the taxpayers have not been informed what that increase to the county budget will be. Why are you about to approve spending for something that you don't know yet how you will pay for it? Current public debt, public school debt service for fiscal year 2023, according to their budget, was $17 million. What is the increase going to be for this combined $180 million being added? What is the schedule for paying this back? Is it five years, 10 years, 20 years? What are the interest rates that we have to pay now? Because we have the wonderful, inflationary market we have where everything we want to buy costs more when you're doing it with debt. We have seen poor accountability in the past from the school board on past construction and spending projects. The most recent schools featured open plan areas and general hangouts, but that was poorly designed because now you have to have additional staff to go and monitor and watch these open areas. They're at capacity now, and now they want to build more expansions to these places. Now we're asking to be paying for more money for expansions, but they have open areas that they cannot really utilize very well during the day. We're going to be paying for more money for expansion, but they have open areas that they cannot really utilize very well during the day. Nor can they convert those into classrooms. Why are we budgeting for this now as far as approving spending instead of waiting until we know what our revenue will look like for next year and what the new levy rate is going to be? I would also like to briefly share a few comments I shared with the school board last night. They recently applauded their celebration of their school accreditations. However, their SOL scores are, in my opinion, down in the dumps at only a 64 for reading, 74 for writing, history is 60, math is 62, and science is 62. And watching their personnel committee meeting, they had 101 resignations in their first year of employment with our school system. I'm appalled to see this kind of behavior happening and the poor work environment for our teachers. How do we staff a fourth high school until we know we can fix these other inherent issues? Thank you. Justin Mestretta, followed by Renee Bayless. Renee Bayless, First Senior Teacher is Hello! Hi, Justin Mestretta, Peckin District. I'm going to keep this kind of short. I just really felt the need to come up tonight and say what I know has been said a thousand times before. I have a 7th grader and a 4th grade- a 3rd grader. And I really see a lot of what's going on in the community. This is a growing, vibrant community and residents shouldn't have to beg for what they basic need for their basic needs. They're not required to beg. It doesn't make sense. L work for public schools. They're not required to beg for what they basic need for their basic needs and we've done some vu mental sports, things like that. Whatever their commissioner may be like. And so, we are committed to always wanting to support cities steadily. These aren't their basic needs to be met. The situation we were in was foreseen and a hundred percent preventable. Now is the time to do the right thing and make up for past mistakes. That means making the fiscally responsible decision to build the fourth high school now instead of continuing to kick the can down the road and have costs continue to rise. With that said make the equally fiscally responsible decision to fully fund the required school so we don't waste tax dollars a few years from now needing to add on to it. Don't cut back and create the situation that we now have to also deal with on Jordan Springs. I'm gonna end by saying stop encouraging the gap between the haves and the have-nots. A well-educated community is a strong community, the entire community. Thanks. Renee Bayless followed by Cherise Woodward. Hi good evening my name is Renee Bayless and I live in the Ohio State University. I'm a senior student at the Ohio Peckin District. My children attend Middletown and Aylor Middle School. I just want to say please support the funding as presented for the elementary schools and the high school. My oldest was in preschool the last time this was presented and didn't anything happen and hopefully if I'm lucky he'll be halfway through high school when it's finally completed. Every day when I drive through Stevens City and Middletown I see there's hundreds and hundreds of houses going up in both of those towns and I just I'm not sure where you're gonna put the students. My son in Middletown last year in fifth grade he had 32 students in his classroom and it was a very very small room you couldn't even walk down the aisle between the desks without going like this sideways. So just I just urge you to support the community and the high school community. Thank you. Would you please to support the funding for the for the schools? Thank you. Cherise Woodward followed by Alexa Venturinato. I'm Cherise Woodward and I'm with the Ohio Peckin District. Ladies and gentlemen of Frederick County Board of Supervisors, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak today. I stand before you as a concerned citizen and advocate for the future of our community to express my strong support for the construction of the fourth high school in Frederick County. County. This initiative not only is necessary but vital for the continued growth and development of our county. Frederick County has experienced significant growth over the past decade. Our vibrant community has become a desirable place for families to settle and drawn to our quality of life, excellent schools, and economic opportunities. However, this growth brings with it pressing need for expanding our educational infrastructure. Our current high schools are operating at capacity and it's imperative that we take proactive measures to accommodate the increasing number of students. When classrooms become overcrowded, the quality of education suffers. Teachers are stretched thin, unable to provide individualized attention. Students struggle to thrive in a congested learning environment. By building a fourth high school, we can ensure small class sizes which are proven to enhance student learning outcomes, foster personal connections, and create a more conducive, inclusive environment for education. I understand concerns about potential tax increases associated with building a new high school. However, it's important to recognize that tax rates are influenced by numerous determinants. Factors such as economic growth, property values, and the overall fiscal strategy of the county all play roles in the shape of tax policies. Thus, the construction of a new school does not guarantee an increase in taxes. As business is a cost-effective, economic development, and a more inclusive future. Thank you. Alexis Venturato, Opecan District, OPEC, and District. I'm Alexis Venturato, Opecan District, and I'd really appreciate not being booed because I'm a student here in the county. I'm a student here in the county. I'm a student here in the county. I'm a student here in the county. I'm a student here in the county. I'm a student here in the county. I'm a student here in the county. I'm a student here in the county. I am a human being, so thank you so much. I am a graduate of Sherando High School, and I am a current teacher at Jameswood High School, which is finishing its renovation. We're in our last year. This is our third year, and it would take approximately, I've heard figures saying four years to finish a new high school. We will finish this year on our renovation with one less classroom than we started out with before the renovation. One less classroom than we started out with. So we will still have trailers in our brand new school. We will have 10 trailers. It is no longer enough for us to have additions or renovations to schools. It's time for a fourth high school. I loved going to Sharando. I loved it. I graduated in 2019. We still had trailers. They have even more now. I want the people who are there in future schools to have that same experience that I had. It's not going to be the same if they're going in and out of the building to trailers. They're teaching in or they're learning in, you know, a completely different experience. We can give them a better quality of education if we build that fourth high school. And teachers, it's going to improve our retention if we build that fourth high school. Because more teachers are going to come if they're not going to be stressed about the crowding. They're not going to be stressed with all these issues that come with crowded schools. Also, D.C. is expanding, right? D.C. is expanding. Do we want them to come here with their money, the people who are leaving from D.C.? Or do we want them to go to Maryland? Do we want them to go to West Virginia? Tell them to bring their money here. Build another school. Build a good school. We give them good schools, they will come and they will give us their money. And that's where we're going to get our money from to build this school to keep improving our town and our county. Thank you. Thank you. Rachel Colson followed by Brian Nury. Thank you. It's actually Rachel Carlson with an A, not Colson. I stand before you as a parent of three children through the Frederick County Public Schools. I have one who graduated in the class of 2022 from Sherando. I have one who's about to graduate in the class of 2025. And I want to A-learn right now. So that makes me the Opecan District. I speak because I've been here in this community for 23 years. And that was the year just after that. That is when Millbrook opened. We were due for a fourth high school at that time in 2006. We bought land in 2013. 10, 11 years ago, this board who was sitting there at that time said we needed a fourth high school. We purchased the land. That's not on Route 37, by the way. So we already have land appropriated. That was not decided by builders. But yet, here we are. I have a son who can't go to the bathroom. He's in his high school without an escort. And when he gets to go to the bathroom, there's only one bathroom available in the whole high school in that hallway. And it's monitored by an assistant principal. An assistant principal is monitoring our bathrooms because it's not safe enough. There's too many kids. You walk through those hallways, they get bumped. I've had two of those children go to the mobile unit. They've had multiple insurances. They've had multiple insurances. They've had multiple construction classes there who were freezing in the winter because there's not enough heat. And who are too hot in the summer because there's not enough air conditioning. And two years ago, when we had to wait at the former food lion parking lot due to an active shooter, my son had no way to protect himself while he was in that mobile unit prior to going to an open athletic field prior to going to an open athletic field to be able to go to the gym. And he had to be in a protective area. Please consider the safety of our kids. Brian Nury. Followed by Jennifer Hall. Mr. Chairman, we've had a lot of clapping, a lot of booing. We've had one person say, hey, please don't. I can't even hear the people that are being named as they come up. So there's a courtesy of just listening to the discussion. Thank you. Thank you, members of the board. My name is Brian Nury, resident of the school. I'm the head of the school board. I'm the head of the school board. I'm the head of the school board. I'm the president of the Opecan district. Leadership is not supposed to be an easy job. It's about making difficult decisions. Yet I can't believe we're at a time when we're going to make hard decisions against children. Against their better interests. Against their better interests. In 2013, land was purchased. That was 11, almost 12 years ago. That was 11, almost 12 years ago. And we still do not see anything. And we still do not see anything. But we do see the potential for change. But we do see the potential for change. But we do see the potential for change. And it's not just about the proposal of school choice. That sounds like an option, right? However, it's not. The University of Kentucky will tell you that rural schools suffer even more than urban schools when school choice is provided. One of the biggest costs, transportation. Chairman Ludwig said that we have, the schools are just about as expensive. Chairman Ludwig said that we have, the schools are just about as expensive. But he didn't factor in the fact that we provide free transportation from home to schools. But he didn't factor in the fact that we provide free transportation from home to schools. Private schools don't. You have to show up. So if you work a three hour shift, don't do it. You have to show up. second or third shift job, good luck. Application fees, you don't always get in. Extracurricular activity fees, you don't always get them. School choice is a lie, but it's a convenient lie because this board for 11 years has not done anything. Previous boards, it is their fault. Well, you know what? Tough. It is now this board's turn to make a decision and finally do something to better the schools for our children because if we don't move forward on this, these t-shirts need to stop saying Frederick County needs public schools. It's going to say we need to have better leadership. Thank you. Jennifer Hall followed by Jody Yeagy. Jennifer Hall, Shawnee Desai. A little quick history lesson for you. Frederick County Public Schools was established in 1949 following the consolidation of several smaller community-based schools to create a more unified public school district. Since its inception, the district has expanded to accommodate the growing population. Today, there are currently 23 schools in the county. Over the last 75 years, we know there have been more than 23 schools. For example, the old Robinson Elementary, I went there. They had no air conditioning. I remember it. Frederick County, old Frederick County Middle, old Aylor, just to name a few. So we've had to do a lot of replacements. So there have certainly been more than 23. My point is, for decades, boards before you have figured out how to build schools without substantially raising taxes here in Frederick County. And I'm confident that you all will figure out a way to do the same. So please vote yes to fully funding our schools and moving forward with the capital improvement priorities that the school board gave. Thank you. Jody Yagy, followed by Jennifer Gaynor, Gaylor. Hi, I'm Jody Yagy, a resident of the Redbud District. I am not a teacher. I don't work in the school district. I am a mom. I'm a taxpayer in this district. I and most of my neighbors in the 150 homes that are being built in my neighborhood, which is in Mr. Dunn's district, support this budget request because it's very important that we understand that this district is a very important part of our community and that we are the ones who are most supportive of our community. I think that's what we need to do. And I'm confident that we'll do our part in this. So if you have any questions, if you have any questions, please feel free to ask them in the comments. because our kids deserve to be educated in buildings and not trailers any longer. Mr. Ludwig, as your good friend and candidate that you supported, Miles Atkins, once said just a few moments ago, the SpaghettiOs can has been kicked down the road far too long. Vote yes on the fully requested amount this evening. Thanks for your support. Jennifer Gaylor, followed by Matt Yetson. Good evening, board members. My name is Jennifer Gaylor, and I live in the Shawnee District. My twins were supposed to be the first class that graduated from the fourth high school when the land was purchased 12 years ago. They're now sophomores in college, and there's still no high school. For those complaining about fiscal responsibility of this board and the decisions that this board makes, the cost for that fourth high school, which the land is already there for, has gone up at least $70,000 because the Board of Supervisors has not been able to make the right decision on this. For those also complaining about the developments that are going up, they were approved years ago. They're just being built now. So there's no use in complaining about them going up because they weren't even approved by this board. They were approved by this board. They're just being built now. So there's no use in complaining about them going up because they weren't even approved by this board. or the board before this. So we cannot ignore the reality of what is happening in our county. Lastly, there are 93 homes going up right next to Sherando High School. If there is not a better visual reason for why we need another high school, I'm not sure I know what is. Thank you. Matt Yitzen, followed by Steven Baker. Good evening. I am Matt Yitzen, a resident of the Redbud District. The fourth high school would have cost $91 million if it was built in 2017. It would now be $152 million, a 67% increase because we kicked the can down the road. If we kick the can down the road again for another seven years and have another 67% increase, that will raise the price to $253 million. More delays will be fiscally irresponsible, will cause a budget crisis, and will result in a massive tax increase for residents. FCPS must either purchase modular cash or rent them. They require annual maintenance. We are wasting hundreds of thousands of dollars each year on these trailers. During your work session on September 18, 2024, Mr. Bolhofer discussed that in nine of the last 11 years, our actual revenues have exceeded our actual expenses. The cumulative 11-year total is $62.3 million. We have a history of starting with an equal budget and ending up in a profitable position. The 2024 budget states that the county has $62.3 million. The 2020 budget states that the county has $62.3 million. The 2020 budget states that the county has $62.3 million. The 2020 budget states that the county has $62.3 million. The 2020 budget states that the county has $62.3 million. The 2020 budget states that the county has $204 million in cash as of June 30, 2023. And cash, on average, has grown by 14% year over year since 2017. The money for these projects is not needed immediately. An alternative to raising taxes is to invest more of our cash. Based on the annual comprehensive finance reports, we appear to only be investing about 14% of our cash. Invest more of our cash, invest our available capital funds, and change our reserve policy from the 20% to 17%. Release that $7 million and invest that. The county earns about 5% on its vestments. Every additional $2 million that we invest will result in $100,000 of additional revenue to the county annually. Mr. Liero, you spent 37 years as an educator. Your campaign election signs earlier this year stated veteran, educator, leader. Be the educator and leader that you campaigned on and provide our public education system with the resources it needs. Vote yes on the full motion tonight. Ms. McCain-Slaughter, Jordan Springs Elementary School in your district is currently- Oh, sorry. Thank you. Stephen Baker followed by Sonia Morfacci-Agud. Hi, Stephen Baker from Redbud District. I'm a financial advisor and I'll finish up what he said. When I look up there at Jordan Springs Elementary, it makes me upset that the opportunity was there to build it the proper size. Back when it was built, what, three, four years ago? I moved here 28 years ago. It would not have been built in the same way. I moved here 28 years ago. It would not have been built in the same way. It would not have been built in the same way. I couldn't find a place to live. I didn't have a place to go to. I didn't have a place to go to. I didn't have a place to go to. I lived in a little town. I lived in a little town. I was a student there until 1995. I was excited when a friend of mine, assistant superintendent at the time who was in charge of building, told me about Millbrook High School. And my son was a sophomore when he started there and then had a daughter. Was there. And that was 21 years ago. Ten years between Sharando and Millbrook. We're now at 21 and with construction, you're talking about a great deal of construction. out of going to 25 years you know i know we all know the school needs built they're not gonna present something to you guys that is outrageous they've never been able to get away with that in this county so the school needs built um it just you know even the poll i thought when the paper did a poll i'm like well that's mostly going to be a bunch of old folks like about a thousand people read the paper nowadays and i was kind of tickled when i saw the results of that poll and i hope that opens some eyes because that's not a bunch of young hippies reading the paper so i would urge you to build the fourth high school we need it i see the uh cindy uh chamber of commerce known cindy forever and i think about both in the medical field um attracting physicians medical professionals i think about with businesses one of the things they want to know about is your school system let's get it the heck up to date thank you sonia marfacci followed by kiri carmichael good evening my name is sonia marfacci agud and i live in back creek i have a sixth grader third grader and my youngest is in kindergarten there's nothing more to say about the school system than the spring school andwork before you also a large credit to takich пров profesional and improved fund raising special Avenues for sizardLike the people who founded the school building these parents founded the school using the Dog SERP einge and you follow the official grafenstein the idea called bridge haunted their home designed dashing wild home beyond the road to plan for the future, not play catch-up. Stop being so short-sighted and kicking the can down the road. Be fiscally responsible. These projects were a whole lot cheaper years ago, but by delaying, you are wasting our taxpayer dollars. Costs for construction and materials continue to go up, and the number of homes being built continue to increase. Our kids and the families of Frederick County deserve better, and whatever you decide will affect us. We are taxpayers too, you know. Thank you. Carrie Carmichael, followed by Nicole Marco. Hi, I'm Carrie Carmichael, Shawnee District. I'm a parent. My daughter will be a freshman at Sharando next year. I'm here to ask you to please approve the request for funding as requested to build the fourth high school and expand the schools as needed. It's too late for my daughter, but it's not too late for the kids. I'm here to ask you to please approve the request for funding as requested to build the fourth high school and expand the schools as needed. It's too late for the rest of our kids, and we need to do this now and not delay any further. Thank you. Nicole Marco, followed by Nigel Foster. Good evening. My name is Nicole Marco. I'm a resident of the Opecan District. I emailed you all earlier today. Thank you for those who responded and those who support our schools. I have three children who attend Frederick County Public Schools. I'm also a very active volunteer here at all of my children's schools, and I'm PTO president at Ayler Middle School. Ayler just started its fourth year in the new school and is about 50 students away from capacity. They just welcomed over 300 sixth graders this year. All of these students will go to Sharando High School. As stewards for the future of this county, please stop playing politics at our children's, and for the local schools. The Florida County populations of this county are still on theiggs. Our children at all innovative性 employees shall stay home as long as possible, no matter what. vector vehicles gotta pay for up step you will be served in Azteca, Texas, on the line untilworkers letter read The governor, only now to reveal the facts in front of the state, but the Missouri State and other focus Chinese arrivals should only be a zwei Your very first county or stateeterminate marketing from today. I wish the birth of galaxy xnjet Anyway, all these new them specifically ch spiritates and crafts so that all Frederick County residents, not just those that you prefer and not the loud minority. Our students and our educators deserve better. They all deserve the opportunities that generations before them were given. Opportunities that each of you sitting before me were given. Vote yes and thank you. Nigel Foster. Nigel Foster, a member of the Redbud District. Good evening. I'm a junior at Millbrook High School and have attended Frederick County Public Schools since first grade. Currently our community is going through lots of change. Whether you like it or not is one thing, but you cannot deny that our community is growing at a rapid pace. One development is currently being built right behind my neighborhood and another is in the works. In total, these two developments would feature over 750 new homes. These communities are going to add additional enrollment to already overcrowded FCPS schools. This trend in increased enrollment in our public school system has further necessitated the need for a fourth high school, along with additional factors such as limited opportunities, inadequate teacher space, and how overcrowded classrooms are affecting student needs. I'm going to briefly cover each of these points. At Millbrook, many career and technical education classes are at full capacity, limiting opportunities for many students. These classes lay the groundwork for professions that we need to have a successful country and a successful society. If we don't allow students to take these classes, who will fix your HVAC when it breaks down? Who will help raise healthy livestock on farms? And ultimately, who will lead this country when it is our turn? Do you want an uneducated or educated society? As Thomas Jefferson said, an educated city, is a vital requisite for our survival as free people. The overcrowding doesn't only affect the students, though. It also affects the teachers. At Millbrook, due to overpopulation and lack of classrooms, there are multiple teachers who do not have an actual classroom, but instead, teach from a cart that you have to push around. How do you expect to hire and retain teachers that are limited to only a cart to teach from? Furthermore, the goal of public education is to promote student achievement and preparation, while also ensuring equal social and economic success. However, this simply cannot be achieved in overcrowded classrooms. With 30 plus students in every class, it is not possible for teachers to meet the individual needs of all students. I'll end with these thoughts. I've learned that you always leave a situation better than you found it, and I hope this board leaves the public school system in a better place by approving funding for the fourth high school. Teachers and students have continually asked for additional resources to provide a better education, so let's do the right thing for the administrators, custodians, families, teachers, and students, and build the fourth high school. So let's do the right thing for the administrators, custodians, families, teachers, and students, and build the fourth high school. Thank you for your time. Thank you for your time. Thank you for your time. Thank you for your time. Mr. Chairman, that is the end of the list. Mr. Chairman, that is the end of the list. Very good, thank you. So we usually leave it open to see if there's anyone else who would like to speak. If so, please queue up. I don't want to have this be an endless queue of people coming forward. In the center aisle, please. Name and magisterial district. Hi, Ronnie Ludwig. This is my son, Matthew. Let's start off with John Jewell. Stop lying, dude. You always tell people that we don't have any kids in public school. Look at him. He's my son. He's our son. He's in Millbrook. Stop with the lies. And Frederick County Conservative Committee is mine. Read. Learn to read. It's there. It's registered. You, just stop. You don't even belong in there. Now, moving forward, there's been a lot of lies been said. None of you guys have kids currently in school, except me. None of you guys have kids currently in school, except me. We're going to have a great conversation about this. I'm going to let you speak. I'm going to get numbers from him. Matthew, how many kids are in AP World History in your class right now? There are a total of four students. That's including my son. Four. Next, how many kids are in his Driver's Ed class? Go. There are roughly 20 students in Driver's Ed. Thank you. Next, how many kids are in your history class? There are 20. There are 19 students in AP World History. Next, math. How many kids are in his math class? There are 15 students in my math class. There are 15 students in my math class. He has recently moved all the kids to one side of the class, leaving roughly 12 tables open on the other side of the class. Leaving roughly 12 tables open on the other side of the class. Completely empty, one side. Here's my issue with you guys. You guys want to sit there until schools are crowded? You guys want to sit there until schools are crowded? Great. Except she has kids in school and he has kids in school. Does she ever take the time to talk to them? Because they do have kids in school. And it's not crowded. You guys need to knock it off. You want to laugh? Please address the board. No, you are very inappropriate. Be quiet. Anyway, this is ridiculous and it's been a lot of lies. Matthew wanted to come up here because a kid got up here and said they're pushing carts in Millbrook. Matthew was like, Mom, that's never happened. I go to Millbrook. That's not there. So I don't know where this is happening, but you guys stop with the lies. . . . . . James Mulder, Back Creek District. First of all, I want to ask all the supervisors, how do you fund this project when you don't know the real cost? The federal and state government has hotlines for fraud, waste, and abuse. I believe Mr. Mulder has one. Mr. Leroy, you were in the military. Mr. Jewell, you've been in the Senate. You're aware of the hotlines. I spoke to you guys the last few months about the Board of Education excuse me, the school board saying that there's fluff in these numbers. Nobody wants to talk about the fluff. That means to me fluff is waste and abuse of taxpayer money. . . . When Jordan Spring School was built and they built all the wasted space in there that cannot be classrooms, we can't turn that into classrooms now. Why? Because the power of the purse was not overwatched by this Board over the school board. We write the school board blank checks they do what they want to, they design the buildings that they want to, there's no accountability. . . This year alone the public schools have 77 vacancies. That comes to $4 to $5 million that the school board is not paying out in salaries. Where's that money going to go? Shouldn't it go toward this building fund if they're saving the money? I know it's personnel expense, but where at the end are we going to see that kind of money? That's a good way to get that money toward the building. . The schools also waste a lot of money. Mr. Leroux, I believe your wife works with the school, so you and your family have privilege to this. At the tune of over $600,000 taxpayer money a year, the school employees and their families get free medical help through Valley Health, one clinic, and other services. We're going to be able to provide that to those people. Please hold this until the budget season. See what the money is like. See what the schools want to cut out of the budget to help fund this project. Don't give them a blank check. . . Hello, my name is and I have three students in first grade, third grade, and fourth grade and I am a teacher by I'm a director at a preschool but I do feel that I speak for the parents and for the teachers when I say please support this. Vote yes. As you guys already know, overcrowding in schools can have a negative impact on both students and teachers which can include limited attention, increased noise distractions. As a mom of three students that have ADHD, the noise distractions in the classrooms for overcrowding is ridiculous. I also have a child that is in the third grade in a trailer and the temperature control the just the fact that they're even in a trailer in the fourth year of the school being open I think it's just absolutely preposterous. Disciplinary issues. Students can rile each other up creating a chaotic environment. Teachers may have few resources to deal with these issues and students lose out on valuable learning time. Illnesses. Oh my god. The overcrowding in schools may have poor ventilation and temperature control which can lead to illnesses that cause absences. Teachers stress. I'm going to say that again. Teachers stress. Teachers may feel overwhelmed and struggle to meet the needs of their students. Not because they don't have the resources or the capability of it. It's because there's too many students in there to deal with. And so I ask you guys to please vote yes. Good evening, ward. I'm Joy Dunn from the Redbud District. I have been a teacher for over 20 years. And during that time I had the privilege of teaching very wealthy districts in Dallas. I taught in the inner city near Detroit. I had the privilege of teaching over in France for a summer. And lastly here in Frederick County at the old Aylor Middle School. I taught ESL. Now my room was a storage room. And how many teachers should teach in a storage room? I think that's very inappropriate. Now I absolutely loved teaching in Frederick County. I had a wonderful administrator. And as the gentleman just spoke here a little while ago as far as teachers teaching on a cart. I know what that's like. Not all teachers are leaving Frederick County because of the pay. When I had to teach on a cart I taught 6th, 7th, and 8th grade. So in the morning I would fill up my cart and I would rush off to the room and I would teach 6th grade theater. When I was done I had to rush off back to the room and take everything off that cart fill it up for 8th grade remedial reading. When I was done I had to go to my next third period class. And I had to teach 6th and 7th grade theater. And then I had to teach 7th and 8th grade speech. I didn't even have time to go to the bathroom. And so to be able to expect a teacher to teach on a cart is extremely difficult. And after two years of that in the school district where I was I left. You cannot expect teachers to do that. Now several people have said, okay we need this new high school which I agree with. How are you going to pay for it? You know what, kudos to my husband, Blaine Dunn for coming up with the idea of doing impact fees. For the past two years we've gone to Richmond and have tried to be able to get that. I would encourage the rest of you board members to be able to go with him and try to get impact fees for Frederick County. That is a great way to be able to pay for this high school. Thank you. Is this the last speaker we have? I think there's one gentleman in the back. One more? Very good. My name is Leslie Spencer. I'm at Gainesville District. I want to first thank you very much for the school choice to be on the agenda. I really appreciate that. I was a volunteer parent at a homeschooling co-op. We raised $1000 a month to pay for our fees and after COVID it was shut down and it went up to we tried to restart it up it was $7000 a month because they were charging by the hour. If you want homeschoolers to grow we need a facility as well. A playground, nature, farming. I would really like to support the 4th High School because I want to be able to get my kids back to school. I have a belief. Let's see. Alright. This is from I care about people and children and teachers and all of us. So when I was praying on my farm where I teach my children to grow food with me as we homeschool, this is what came to me. Lay not up yourselves treasures upon earth where moth and rust doth corrupt. And where thieves break through and steal but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt. And where thieves do not break through nor steal for where your treasure is there will your heart be also. The light of the body is the eye if therefore think I be oh shingle thy whole body shall be full of light but if thine eye be evil thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness how great is that darkness. No man can serve two masters for either he will hate the one and love the other or else he will hold to one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon which is the word for money. Thank you very much. Good evening supervisors. In a lot of ways I have no dog in this race. I don't have any kids in school here. I'm sorry could you start with your name and I'm sorry. I'm Gainsborough district. Sorry about that. I have no real dog in this race. I don't have any kids here. Nobody in my family teaches. I don't have any particular friends that are teachers or anything like that. But I do have a responsibility to try and help my community. And I think part of that believing in the old adage that it takes a village to raise a child I want to do my part in that case and if that means somewhere down the line my tax bill goes up a little bit that's a price I'm willing to pay as a person who's never had anybody go to any school in this county but I'm a citizen here and I want the best for everybody. I want to do my best for our kids. Thank you. Chairman Tim from the Bat Creek District. I'm neither for or against the Fort's High School. That's not what I'm here to remind you of. At the last meeting I played a recording of the school board's one of the members of the school board admitting that they've altered the meeting. And I played it for you and if you want me to replay it I will, not now. My question is not about the school. My question is what other numbers have they altered? And that's something you should take into consideration. Are the numbers that they've given you the true numbers? So I would ask that you set this vote aside have an independent audit done on this and then take it from there. Because the numbers that I don't know if they're right or wrong. All I know is that they've already showed that they're not I don't want to say lying about things. But I think that's where you should go with it. Instead of just jumping on it. Thank you. I'm Cherise Woodward in Opec and District. I am a Frederick County educator. I teach at Sharando High School. I'm a business and information technology teacher. And I wanted to share or just let you know that not everywhere is like Millbrook. He is very fortunate. I taught economics and personal finance plus business management. And I had two sections of economics and personal finance that had 30 students in it. And I was very fortunate this year or we were very fortunate that Ms. McCoy was able to get cabinetry removed so that kids didn't they actually had a place to sit in that room. So this year I don't teach economics and personal finance. I teach sports and entertainment management or management and then business management that's still enrolled. My smallest class is 17. So I just and my entire career I started teaching in 2008. I have always been on a cart. I have never had my own classroom. And I graduated from Sharando High School. So just to be clear I really do hope and I've had three of my four children graduate from Frederick County Public Schools. I do hope that you all take into consideration the future. It is not okay to continue to add trailers and make excuses. It needs to happen. If you really want to know why teachers are leaving the profession it's a combination of the abuse that we hear at public meetings our lack of pay the stress of trying to deal with overcrowded classrooms and the stress that regular stress just living life. And I think that's what I'm trying to do. Our futures deserve a fourth high school. Thank you. Thank you all for speaking. I appreciate the decorum most everyone showed. We've had meetings in the past about schools and about other issues not always about schools where people were very passionate and much more rowdy and unpleasant. So I know everyone cares very greatly about this issue as well as the schools and the taxes that it takes to build them. So again I appreciate the way this discussion was held and I therefore close the public comment period for this item. Mr. Chairman Mr. Chairman We are open for discussion. I'd like to make the motion regarding 11A. I move for the adoption of the budget amendment resolution as presented covering supplemental school construction fund appropriations for fourth high school expansion at Middletown Elementary School and expansion at Jordan Springs Elementary School including a general fund supplemental appropriation for school proffers. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman we are looking at unbelievable growth this can has been kicked way too long down the road we can pay for this. We are looking at proposal this year for $781,271 for 73 trailers. Of those 73 trailers 8 of them are for Armel, Redbud and Indian Hall. That means all the rest are for what we are talking about here. The elementary schools and the high schools. That alone, I mean $781,000 a year so we have, this has got to stop. It has to stop. And we just got to step up and do the right thing. Thank you. Other comments? Supervisor Dunn I'm going from right to left here. So for all of you who talked I'll just make a couple comments to address some of the issues you've raised. One the growth issue. As some of the people have said, we have about 13,000 homes or 13,000 lots that are ready to be built. There's nothing that this board can do about it. They've been on the on the block for a number of years. For those of you who are in Redbud, yes there's about 1,500 homes that are being built in Redbud alone. I'm very aware of what occurs in Cincinnati. But the cost for that and the profits for that were all taken care of 20 to 25 years ago. And there's nothing that we can do about it. So just accept the fact that this is where we are today. On the issue of cost, how do you pay for it? In 2000, Millbrook High School was about 10%, before Millbrook High School was built, the school capacity was about 10% greater, sorry, the student's capacity was greater than, there were 10% more students than there were capacity. The county built Millbrook High School and that took care of the capacity issue. In 2017, some of us on this board had a discussion on in addition to Millbrook. If that had occurred, if that had occurred for $9.2 million, the capacity issue would have been felt until 2030. Today, we have about 4,000, when Jameswood is finished, we have about 4,000 seats. In 10 years, we are expected to have 5,000 students, these rounded off numbers. You have 300 plus students at Sherando, where do they go? Even if the Millbrook had been built for 400 seats, that still leaves a deficit of 600 seats, and where do those people go? On the issue of school choice, and the gentleman that's made the comment is welcome to talk to me afterwards. I think school choice is a good option. It keeps the public schools honest. And from my perspective, for a student that's in first grade or second grade, my question is, I don't care if you go to a public school, or private school, or home schooled, or aren't schooled. The real question is, when you turn 18, what do you know? Do you know science, math, etc.? You go through our criteria, and how you get there is immaterial to me. So, that's a thought. But in this case here, this population is growing. We're going to get another 20,000 to 30,000 or more people. I think the fourth high school is going to be needed. Having said that, on the motion that Mr. Jewell just made, I'm going to suggest we take $30 million from our capital fund, so we can reduce the amount of money that is being borrowed. The savings of $30 million is $19.5 million over a 20 year time frame. Bonds are a 20 year time frame. If we do not do that, then you, the taxpayer, are going to spend an additional $1 million per year on interest on that $30 million. For those of you that say, well, what's the interest rate that you're earning on the money, and what's the cost of money? That's approximately neutral. But I'm also a taxpayer here as well. And from my perspective, if I were talking to a board, I'd say, if you're not going to spend this money for capital projects, and this is a capital project, then I want my money back. I don't want you to go and earn money on my money. Give me my money, and I can go get a better rate of return than you can. Therefore, I would say, give me my money back. So, Mr. Chairman, I am going to make a resolution to go and stake on this total amount to drop it by $30 million, to have $30 million come from the capital fund that will cover the full cost of building the two elementary schools, and there will be another approximately $1 to $1.5 million that can go up toward the high school. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's not a motion. That's something for the future that you're going to introduce? No, I'll make that as a motion. So you can't make a motion now. We have one on the table. I can amend his motion. Can I not? I can amend. You can amend the motion on the table. I apologize. I will amend Mr. Jewell's motion to have $30 million of the total expense paid for from the capital fund that we currently have, which is approximately right now $36 million. So, well, we have a motion. First, we have to see if we have a second on this, and then I don't understand but do we have a second? Second. We have a second on my motion. Do we have a second on the amendment? There is a second to John's motion. Right. Do we have a second for Supervisor Dunn's amendment? I'll second Supervisor Dunn's motion that allows for a vote and discussion. So I guess I need to clarify then. I don't understand. So at this point we are being asked to amend the budget for a supplemental appropriation. You're saying you want to reduce that appropriation? You don't want to reduce that amount? No. So the appropriation, I think, would be the same regardless of where it comes from. This is not the bond part. I just want to make certain that we don't get caught so. I think the Administrator wants to make a comment here. Yes, I believe he phrased it as three different things before us. So we're taking one at a time? If indeed you were to go that route, it would change the appropriations. Because if you take the money from the capital fund, those funds are already appropriated so it would actually have to be a change. It would have to be stated more precisely. But it would take a change to the appropriations. So we would be reducing I'm not stating this exactly. Someone would have to work out that language. But in general, we'd be reducing this appropriation and redirecting an appropriation that's already been made. Is that basically it? I will read exactly what it would be. Okay. If you were to change that and use the capital funds, the motion would actually have to be a motion for a supplemental appropriation to the school construction fund of $150,136,581.30 of $150,136,581.30 and using $1,463,418.70 of capital funds for the Middle Town and North High School. And providing $22,400,000 to the school construction fund from the capital fund for the Middle Town Elementary School expansion. And a supplemental appropriation of $7,463,463.18 of $7,463,463.18 to the school construction fund fund proffers and using $6,136,418.30 of capital funds for the Middle Town Elementary School expansion. If I may explain, just to make it as complicated, when you're using the capital fund $30 million, you do not have to appropriate it because that was appropriated initially in your original budget. So what you would be doing is taking that $30 million to help fund the projects. And the way I calculated using that is I used the to go back from Jordan Springs, you were using the $7,463,000 that came from proffers. The proffers have to be appropriated. That's why you use the appropriation language. Then you would use $6,136,581.30 $6,136,581.30 that would come from the capital fund. Because it's from the capital fund, that amount would not have to be appropriated. that amount would not have to be appropriated. The $22,400,000 you'd use from the Middle Town would all come from the capital fund, so it would not be appropriated. So what you're stating in your motion is to use the funds from the capital fund to pay for that. In effect, what you've done is you've taken that $30 million from the capital fund and applied it first to make up the difference, the $6 million difference at Jordan Springs, next the $22,400,000 to pay for the entire Middle Town, which leaves you with a residual amount of $1,463,000 of that total $30,000. So that would reduce the appropriations for the fourth high school. The appropriation of the $150,136,581 is actually appropriation of the funds you would get from bonds, and those funds would have to be appropriated. So that language would cover all those. What sounds simple, once you have to appropriate it and use, gets to be a complicated motion, but I have it written down here. So that's a total of how much from the capital fund? That would be reducing the debt you would be borrowing, which if I remember right was approximately $100,136,581 So the debt would be dropped $30 million which would reduce it to $150,136,000 That other $30 million would be coming from your capital fund. So in effect you've reduced your borrowing by $30 million and utilized the $30 million of the capital fund to make up the difference. So that would nearly deplete the capital fund? It would take the capital fund down to yes, it would take the capital fund down significantly. Okay, thank you for that clarification. To about $6 million, $5.8 million. So discussion of the amendment. So Mr. Chairman, then the reason I made the amendment was because we've set aside money for capital projects. We've done this for a number of years. The capital fund is a capital project. The county has approximately $30 to $40 million for contingencies on something that really goes bad with the county. That's the 17% that was referenced earlier for the total unexpected. We have another approximately $36 million in capital funds. These monies were set aside for capital projects. This is a capital project. Therefore the money that's being set aside for this capital project, I want to use for a capital project. I don't want to go and borrow money, but I want to use it for a capital project. So the taxpayer that has to go, you the taxpayer, will have to pay another million dollars a year on operations. To cover that million dollars a year, you'd have to raise taxes someplace. So I want to save that million dollars a year that you'd have to do that over a 20 year timeframe and use what was designed as a savings account for capital projects to do that. It'd be the same as if you saved money for a car. You've saved money up. You now have $40,000 to put for a car or truck. Do you use that money to buy your car or truck? And then borrow money. In this case, that extra money, the interest rate, what you earn is irrelevant because it's my tax dollars, your tax dollars. So if you're not going to spend it, I want my money back so I can invest it myself and not have you, the county government. So that's the purpose for this. I'm trying to say that we can save an additional $1 million in operating expenses by doing this. The total amount of interest is $19.5 million. That comes from staff. So if we borrow $30 million, you're going to pay another $19.5 million in addition for interest on that over 20 years. And I just think this is a more prudent way to save money. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One other quick comment. For those of you who said, how do we pay for it? I've talked about this for years. Earlier this year, I laid out four options. Impact fees, a 1% tax, meals tax, et cetera. But for everyone in here that's concerned about this, I would strongly encourage you to support impact fees. It's a way to have the cost borne by those that are moving in here, but also to have the cost borne by those that are moving in here, because it doesn't allow, that prevents us having to raise real estate taxes. It's an option. We can talk about it later. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. So with regard to impact fees, this board has always been in favor of that. It's been on our legislative agenda for a number of years. Richmond has not been in favor. I don't know that the outlook on that is any different today than it was before. With regard to taking money out of the capital and the capital in the state, we have to take a lot of money to reduce the debt we have to take. I certainly brought to this board's attention and to the public attention a couple of years ago when I got on this board that I didn't believe we should be holding so much of taxpayer money. When I got on this board, we had 40 plus, we had two months of our entire annual budget in reserve just in case. Now I don't know how, I know there's a lot of citizens in this country, in this county, that don't have two months of money in their bank account in reserve. But that's considered a best business practice. The county follows that. In addition to that, we had a capital fund which was another 40-some million dollars. So we were sitting on 70, 80 million dollars of taxpayer money that we had taken, the board before my time, had taken from you and had it sitting in bank accounts. I am certainly in favor of not taking money from the taxpayer in reserve. But I have been arguing that we should spend that money rather than raise taxes. In fact, I argued and provided the key vote to reduce the tax rates. I argued that through an entire budget season recently. And the capital fund was part of how we did that. I guess I'm a little confused, Supervisor Dunne, for many meetings over this last year, you have decried the fact the capital fund is being drawn down. And now you're talking about depleting it in one fell swoop. So I'd like to add, there would be no money, there would be little money left. For example, we've wanted to spend until this last year seven million dollars or so on road building. This county hadn't put a penny into roads in over a decade and you all can see the result of it. If we draw it down to six million, we won't have the funds left to do that or buy school buses or the other things we've been doing with the capital fund. Since its peak. So how would we get the funds to do those other things? I don't mind spending the excess to reduce debt if that makes financial sense, but why would we draw it down to such a low number? Okay. So to answer your question, Mr. Chairman, this money has been set aside for capital projects. This is a capital project. In our current budget, the one that we passed in April, at the time the budget was passed there was the expectation to take 15 million dollars out of the capital fund to make those numbers work. If you remember, there was about nine million dollars that was expected to come back in June of 2025. That number then has gone up to 12 million dollars. So if those numbers are correct, you will have then in June 30 of 2025 12 million dollars of either increased income or less expenses, totaling that 20 million dollars, or 12 million dollars. That comes from the county administrator's presentation a couple of meetings ago. And there would be an additional 6 million dollars approximately in the remaining part of the capital fund for a total of 18 million dollars. My concern is that I don't think that this board should go and use capital money for operating expenses. So if we don't have this should not be a slush fund. This should not be capital money being used for operations because this is capital money set aside for capital projects. It's the appropriate place to put the money. And if we have an operation situation, then this board has to figure out how to go and either increase income or cut operational expenses. But using the capital fund set aside for capital projects to run an operational budget is just wrong. And it's not wrong in a good bad, but from an accounting viewpoint, it's just inappropriate. So I think that we can work together to figure out how to go and raise revenue. And we may agree or disagree on that. You made the comment about impact fees. Let's say join me in Richmond and make the case for and see if we can convince the legislature to change. There are other options. A meals tax, a 1% sales tax, which you disagree with me on, which is fine, but that brings in 20 million dollars and the cost to the average family is $100,000, not including food, not including food on purchases. It would cost about $100 a year, which is a lot cheaper than a real estate tax. So we have to work together to figure out an option. But I think that this money for capital projects should be spent for capital projects. If it's not, you're just using it to supplement your operations. I think that's wrong. So I appreciate your motion. I'm just a little bit alarmed by the fact that we have a lot of capital projects and we deplete the vast majority of the capital fund and we also commit to major capital projects before we know what our revenue is going to be in the next two years because we haven't had our annual report from the commissioner of the revenue yet. Then if we over commit to spending, I worry that we won't have a fund to recover from that. But that's my first thought. I'd like to hear from the rest of the board on this amendment. I think we've looked to the right many times so far today. Anyone? I'll comment on that. And I'm wondering if maybe an amendment to that because I'm looking at the fourth high school, the soft cost estimate of 21 million. I'm wondering if that could be done for A&E right now. I don't know that any of us and representing the county and taxpayers, I feel that we should know what we are buying. Earlier today, Supervisor Dunn, I was quoted in the Winchester Star, I wrote that down, that this board likes to spend. And I don't know when I spoke with Jack about that. He's back in the back. But anyways, I don't remember saying that but I do believe that to be a very accurate statement. And I want to go back to what you just said. $9.2 million was appropriated in 2017 from Millbrook. It would have addressed our overcapacity. So for you guys who want to sit here and comment that we don't care about the kids, that's obviously not the truth. I'm a former teacher and I have children in the public school system. But the reason that I'm proposing, or maybe amending your amendment, would be to do this in phases, do the architecture and engineering, find out what we are actually purchasing. And the reason a lot of these speakers actually sealed the deal for me, I took notes on what you guys were saying, and I think that's what I'm trying to do. I think that's what I'm trying to do. And I think that's what I'm trying to do. So Alexa, as a teacher at Jameswood High School, I'm a 2003 graduate from Jameswood High School. So 2004, Millbrook would have opened. So I would have presumably been under the largest class. 2003 didn't divide. Okay, well, 034. So I graduated in May, or June, sorry, of 2003. So it opened 2003-04. Meaning I would have been the highest capacity. I was educated in the trailers. I don't remember bumping in the hallways. I got educated. In fact, as I have three children, I often am looking for the education that I was provided through Frederick County Schools. So the reason I'm asking if we can amend to do the A&E is because Dr. Hummer, you said that this high school would accommodate 1600 of the core, and you readily agreed to its ability to expand We've been told Sherando has the ability to expand, and we're told that Millbrook has the ability to expand. Are those the best options? I don't know. But in 2017, the board that's at right here approved 9.2 million. Meaning that our kids would not be elbow to elbow like they are today. So we are listening to you, and we understand that Frederick County Schools dug their heels in the sand, and so that's not what we want. So the board took away the funding. It didn't happen. So you've heard a lot about, I want to go back to that speaker. She works at Jameswood High School. She said after expansion there will still be 10 trailers. That's an issue. That is an expansion that's not even complete. It will be completed at the end of this year. So to me, when this board appropriated that money or Frederick County Schools, and Hummer, you were not part of that. I understand that. But we did not grow for the future, we did not prepare for the future even at that point. We spent $72 million. I have it from your Frederick County site, the Jameswood High School additions. It says addition and renovations. These additions were supposed to house 12 classrooms. I did meet with Dr. Hummer and former chairman Brandon Monk as soon as I got on the board. They said 12 classrooms, about 100 and some kids. The reason that I think this needs to be done in phases is because that's a very poor example 2019, and I've talked about this over and over, there are counties that have gotten 1,800 seat capacity for $91 million. So had this board not done Jameswood addition and renovation, we could have had our fourth high school. So I wasn't on the board, most of us were not. One project that people get very upset about is that $72 million project that is, like she said, will still have 10 trailers. Does it still have 10 trailers? Because that wouldn't fit our plan of needing that fourth high school. I don't know why they didn't expand it more during that renovation. My next, the next thing I just want to point out, and this again was done on the Jordan Springs on the Jordan Springs brand new elementary school. That opened my daughter was in kindergarten when that principal left. We were in apple pie and he went to open Jordan Springs her first grade year. So now it says it has a 500 student capacity. As of September 6th, there were 654 students going there. And this expansion will only increase it to 737. This is a project that was in our community. Planned to have 2,465 residential units. The development is remaining is 1,232 units. So it seems like another bad project that was done that was never going to accommodate our students. And then my third example, excuse me, I reached out to Dr. Hummer to talk about Frederick County Middle. It's beautiful. The morale there is wonderful because it's a beautiful school. However, people in my district will call it the Taj Mahal. I talked to fire and rescue. It's called the Taj Mahal. Okay. It was 49.5 million. It opened in 2016. Is it beautiful? It absolutely is. So I asked him to track down Aylor, which was actually opened in 2021. Aylor was completed for a million dollars less at 48.7 million five years later. So although Dr. Hummer, you were not here and you're not responsible for these very bad projects, we've experienced three in the last five years. That's an issue. And that's the reason that I don't think anybody on this board has said that we're not overcrowded. I don't think anybody has said we don't want to do anything. But when it's irresponsible after irresponsible after irresponsible, I think we need, we need a little better handle or hand in what is going on. And Ballhofer, that's sorry, Mr. Ballhofer, you had mentioned about one call the third party review. Is that essentially where we would start with the A&E and have an input at that point or how would that work? It would go through the A&E process early on to review the plans as you're going along to participate more as a value engineer function. Okay. And at that point, if all the classrooms were full of glass or there were lockers that we didn't need, those things could be, we could have a say or an input? Correct. Okay. So is that automatically that's what we still have to decide on that piece of it or is that automatically what this proposal would include? This proposal does not include that. This is just for the appropriation of funds. The board, as I stated earlier, staff is in the process of hiring someone to do that. The board would have to give the approval to move forward when it came to funding that position. The intention would be to use them as a value engineer going through the process. My understanding is they're using a construction manager type project so up until that one point before you bid it, there's time for input to make changes. Okay. And I just, thank you for that clarification. And just one last thing. When we talk about the mistrust there's a good reason for it. I have a student that comes home this week and is like I don't know where my principal is. The transparency and I watched the school board meeting last night they want Mr. Putt fired. We don't know where Mr. Putt is at this current moment. I have not reached out to him. The teachers, as far as I know, are very confused. Where is our principal and the last and final thing that I saw happening was a flex at Frederick County Middle. And Dr. Hummer, I don't know if you can speak to that, but it deals with funding and that's the reason transparency is what we're after as a board. People spoke to it last night and that board, the school board sat in silence. If it was for that flex that he, I don't know if he's been let go or the rumor is he has cancer. I don't know. If he has been let go, does anyone know he has cancer? No, that's what, there's lots of rumors because there's no transparency at this point. No. No, I want answers. Well, I actually would like Dr. Hummer to let the public know what's going on, which is This is so not in order. My point to this, right here, my point to all of this is that there's been lots of hidden, lots of there's not transparency. And if we are to proceed with a fourth high school and spend close to $200 million of our taxpayer money, we need transparency. Thank you. Thank you. I don't know if Dr. Hummer wants to address that. If he does, he can approach the podium. He's So he's declining to answer the question right now. Thank you. That is extremely unprofessional for you to bring up. Mr. Chair. Mr. Nury, enough interruptions at this meeting. I'll have you thrown out if you continue that. This is not a discussion with you. This is discussion time with the board. I'm the first person here you say that to? Mr. Nury, leave the meeting. That's enough. You don't address the board. It's not public comment time. Leave the meeting or I'll have the officers remove you, sir. Get your goddamn board in line. That's very unprofessional of you. Mr. Chair, you've got an amendment. We do. This is a discussion. It's actually been a lot of new things for me. I appreciate it. I have some comments as well. I wanted to make them when we're debating the final motion. I suppose I can make them now. I have concerns as well. Some of them do bear on financial matters. Well, right now, Mr. Chair, Mr. Chairman, Robert's Rules, you have to address the amendment. We have to address the amendment. And the motion. Right. And then the motion. That's correct. And actually, you've got an amendment that's been seconded. That's Mr. Dunn. You've got an amendment on the floor right now that has not been seconded. That's got to be the discussion point right now. Mr. O'Hall, can I ask you? Okay, your amendment to the current amendment is? Right. It's that $21 million for that Forest High School. The $21 million used out of the capital piggybacking off of Supervisor Dunn. And that we could do, here it is, $21 million, $194,000 for the A&E fees and site studies technology that was in our packet today. Okay. So my amendment would be to use those capital funds for this capital project, but to start with the A&D. Very good. I understand. So you want to use instead of the use as Supervisor Dunn moved and as defined by Mr. Balhofer, you want to take an amount of money out of the capital fund to begin architecture and engineering, which is the next phase of building, in particular, the fourth high school you're talking about. That is correct. Okay. And is there an amount? I've heard 10% of the total project is typical or that we? They I also heard $14 million put out. The amount is generally 8% to 10%. At 10%, it's $15 million. At $14 million, that's in between the 8 and 10. So your motion is to amend the amendment and instead put $14 to or $15 million of capital funds into architecture and engineering of the fourth high school. So that we would know exactly what we are buying. It's not a blank check. That makes sense to me. I'll second that motion. Thank you. So if that amendment, sorry, Mr. Balhofer. If I may just have a clarification, just because this does include all the other appropriations, if I could state, so that would be? Well, so if we approve this, you'll have to refine all that language again. But it would be, just for understanding, you said it was for $14 million that would come out of the capital fund, which would? Mr. Balhofer, would that cover the A&E? $14 million would probably cover it. It's between 8 and 10 percent. The high end is $15 million. And we would always have room if there was a shortfall to put a little additional, correct? That would be the Board's prerogative, yes. Just to clarify, so it would be $15 million from the capital fund to fund just the A&E, and then what you would do is borrow, so you would appropriate the $22 million, $400 thousand for middle town, and then for the Jordan Springs, you would appropriate $7,463,418.70 from proffers, and then the remaining you would appropriate $6,136,581.30 which would come from the bond. That would be correct. Thank you. Thank you. So since I've seconded, let me speak in favor of your amendment. Maybe that'll help, and then the rest of the Board can weigh in. So I also have concerns. When we spend a lot of taxpayer money, we want to make sure we're buying best use of the dollars. We want to build the best possible school for the students. I also believe that this Board should not be writing blank checks of taxpayer money for over $100 million and then disappearing until ribbon cutting day. Let me tell you, the last time we did that with the school, what happened, and that's a learning lesson for middle school. So that got built, and it did not open to the capacity that we were promised. In fact, it's very clear because this Board before my time appropriated a certain amount of money to build the new Aylor Middle School at the same capacity as the old one. And then later, they decided well that makes no sense. We should have an addition, some additional millions of dollars and make sure while we're building it that it's bigger, so it meets the student needs and the county needs for the future. The school Board in this case accepted those additional funds. But again, we did not get the school in the end at ribbon cutting at the size that we were promised. Now, I know that things change during construction and some state codes could have changed about space for students. But since then, I've toured the school, and I'm quite alarmed at what we got. I toured the school, and there are classroom sized open spaces with couches in them that are unused. They cannot be used by the school system. The only way they can be used is if a teacher is in that room or watching that room through a big glass window from a classroom. So they, for example, the only use that I was given during the tour for those rooms and there's a lot of them, was if I have a student that missed a day and he needs to make up a test, for example, he can take it out there on the couch and I can watch him through the glass window from the classroom. I asked, and there were no other uses for those rooms that were described. Those could have been classrooms, and Aylor could have been built to the capacity that we were promised. Another thing at the Aylor, and I see a school board member nodding at that. Another thing we found when the school opened was urinals in the girls' bathroom of the of the new Aylor in the gym. That had to be ripped out. There's more wasted dollars because the chairman at the time didn't know about it, Chairman Brannon Munkin, when he found out, he said this is ridiculous. We shouldn't be taking stalls that young ladies at middle school age need and don't want to wait for and doing some social project and putting urinals in there. It made no sense whatsoever. Those are alarming misuses of funds. This board is responsible to make sure it doesn't have to be adversarial. This board needs to be responsible and keep track of how the dollars are spent and to make sure that the school being built is not a surprise when the ribbon is cut after your funds have been spent. I believe doing this in phases is an excellent idea. If we're going to do it, we fund the architecture and engineering. I'm fine with taking it out of the capital fund, as Supervisor Dunn suggested, and then we will see, all of us, and then we'll see the school board members as well, exactly what came out of that project. I was hoping we could get our RFP out so that we have some engineering advisors on the county board. I appreciate that Dr. Hummer said that when we do, that they'll be allowed to come to all the meetings so that they'll be informed and everybody can be happy when the design is presented and we can go forward without the drama that has accompanied past projects in the county. Unfortunately, the RFP won't be instant. Mr. Ballhofer, how long do you think before we could see an RFP and get it on the street? Within 30 days. Within 30 days it should be on the street because we've been in the process of drafting it. And then it's another 30 or 60 days perhaps to award it and get people on board? Yes, I would say so. So, early in the new year we should have it. Do you think they would have, if the school jumps out to architecture and engineering tomorrow, will they have missed important milestones? I doubt it because it will take a certain amount of months to get to the point where they'll actually have any kind of drawings to review. So it would probably be a pretty good timing on that. Okay. And the last thing I was nervous about, which is a separate subject, is even if we take some of the funds before we draw any out of the capital fund, before we actually start drawing debt that we have to pay against, we don't know what that'll be. We're still waiting for the Commissioner of the Revenues report. I just wasn't in favor of making major commitments when we're seven weeks away. So, this county gets money from a lot of sources. They're all you. Unless they're state and federal grants. They're all us. We pay for everything this county does. But the two largest ones are the personal property tax, which is on vehicles that you pay, and on your homes. Property taxes. The car tax is fairly steady, and you know how to manage that, right? If you have an older car, you keep the same car, you hope it goes down, other than the COVID supply chain issue. But, and that's actually the largest source of revenue we have out of local taxes. Very close to that in size is the tax on your homes. Um, property tax. That's highly variable. Assessments can jump way up, or even go way down in a recession that happened a little over a decade ago. I want to wait to hear what the Commissioner of the Revenues says. You're going to be taxed on your homes in the next year. So I was hoping we could wait till December 11th, when we hear from the Commissioner of the Revenues to make the final decision. However, if we want to, if this Board is determined to go ahead with architecture and engineering and to get started on the project, then that's exactly why I agree with this amendment. It allows us to move forward at the quickest pace, and it allows this Board to be responsible, along with the school Board, in assuring that the tax dollars are spent wisely. So, I'm very much, I like the idea of taking funds out of the capital fund, and I'm very much in favor of your amendment to that. So those are my comments. Other Board members? Mr. Chairman? Oh, go ahead. Supervisor Mijero. Thank you. First of all, I'd like to say thanks to all the folks who spoke tonight. By my count, it was about 34 people, and I had 10 pages of notes, which I was hoping not to have to read. I don't have to read most of those, because you all covered those. So, you all did your homework, and were very prepared, so appreciate that. I would like to say a couple things about the second amendment that Ms. Lockridge has just put down there. First of all, a little history, and we've hit at this, these dates a few times this evening from different speakers. But on 10-25-13, October 25th of 2013, there was an article in the Winchester Star where the day before, I believe, land was purchased for the new high school at $2.075 million. That's October of 2013. That building was supposed to begin being built in 2014 and open in 2017. I believe the overall cost was $64 million. So, I think that's the first thing that we're going to talk about. There was some money appropriated to the OWPR company of Blacksburg for architectural and engineering services. My understanding now is that whatever money that was spent, that number may have gotten higher over the years after 2013. But my understanding now is those architectural plans are no longer usable, and it happens to be a total waste of money. If I'm wrong on that, please correct me. But that's what I understand. Obviously, then following the history along, we didn't go forward with the school at that point. In 2017, it came up again. A number of people have mentioned the $91 million price tag in 2017. We would have had to do new architecture and engineering at that point. But we're not going to do that. We're going to do the same thing in 2020 and 2024. The price tag is $151 million. That has $10 million accelerator clause on that. So hopefully we can get that number down to $141 million. But just to boil it down, my concern is that we've spent millions of dollars on architectural and engineering before, and that got us nowhere. I'd be more in favor of doing it this time, but in that we had basically wasted that money back 11 years ago, I'm not in favor of just doing the architecture and engineering. I'm more in favor of funding the entire project. Thank you. Supervisor Liero, I'd just like to answer the inflation that we've seen from the estimate before to now was in very small part due to the delay in doing the project. The reason we've seen such an increase in the cost is because the federal government shut us down with COVID, shut down the supply chain, and had a massive disruption, which has not recovered. I speak to builders all the time. They are still paying extremely high rates for the basic materials they use to do construction projects. So while some things have come back down since the country reopened, other things have not. The next thing we're seeing is a high inflationary period, and I don't want to get into that. I think that's caused by the federal government as well. But inflation comes and goes. So there's no, I do not believe unless we let the government shut us down as a nation again that we're going to see a doubling in prices in a few years. I think that's not an apples to apples comparison in where we're at now. Again, the great danger is that if we give a blank check, then we have no more control over the taxpayer funds. And I think that would be a dereliction of duty on our part. Other comments? Supervisor Jewell. Mr. Chairman, can I call for a question on Supervisor Lockwood? So, calling for the question is allowed when everyone has had one chance to speak so that it doesn't go on forever. You can allow the call for the question or you can speak, Supervisor Jewell. Oh, no, I'm all in. Call for the question. Okay, but is there anyone else who wants to speak who has not spoken? Yes, Mr. Chairman. If you're going to do only the A&E, then you're going to do the A&E and then make a decision later on whether you're going to fund or are you committing to... I just want it done in phases. So, I'm not saying that we have to re-vote. I'm saying that we need a hand and again, we don't know what we're even receiving at this point. Okay. So, Mr. Chairman, from my vantage point, I'm not in favor of this. And the reason I'm not in favor is I think we have to either make a decision that, yes, we are going to build or no, we are not going to build. If you decide that you are going to build, you're still going to go through an A&E situation. You have a new school board which is probably more conservative than previous school boards. We'll agree to disagree. Okay, that's fine. And we have a new administrator. They've come a new county superintendent. So, they've come up and said, fine, they will work with our chairman. So, I think that if we can work collaboratively, we can do that. But I think that if you do this in pieces, I think that you're... I think you either make the commitment to do it or make the commitment not to do it. That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Well, as President Reagan said, trust but verify. And I think stepping away from it is a big mistake. Anyone else who hasn't spoken? Can I just add, so would you be willing to do the third party review? I mean, that is not included in this vote. True? That's not included in the... So, the RFP... So, we don't need a vote for the board for the RFP to put on the street. However, we do need a vote from this board to authorize the funds to actually do that. So, the question is, is there a consensus of this board to create an independent engineering to pay for that service? Mr. Chairman. We're so far off target. We have one motion, a second motion. Exactly. A second motion and a third motion. We need to call for the question. Call for the question on the amendment. Well, you've called for the question, but we haven't had a second, so we are still discussing it. No? Me? No. I just pointed out. No, on the call for the question. Oh. Do you have to have a second on the call for a question? Well, that's a good question. Yes. Yes, we do. So, we are voting on the amendment, the second amendment. So, this goes in phases. On the amendment, which would begin the project immediately, taking money out of the capital fund rather than looking for taxes to begin architecture and engineering on the Worth High School. That's your amendment. Is that accurate? Yes. Yes, I just cover, say it one more time, just so everyone knows for sure is that they're going to use the $15 million for the capital fund to fund the A&E for this amendment and then use proffers and bonds to pay for the Jordan Springs and bond funds to pay for the Middletown Elementary. So, that's what the ultimate motion would become if we approve this amendment. Right? Okay. So, the question has been called. This is Supervisor Lockridge's motion, correct? Yes, it is. Okay. Supervisor Liero. Let me ask a question first. Mr. Chair, I apologize. Voting on this amendment basically says we're only funding the A&E part of the Forth High School, correct? Correct. Okay, thank you. Thanks for that, Larry. It doesn't stop any further amendments or proceeding. Thank you. We do it in pieces. Got you. I'll vote no on that. Vice Chair? No. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Jewell? No. The Chair votes aye, but the amendment fails. So, now we are at the motion with an amendment and we return to as you described before. Yes, now you're voting on the amendment to the motion now. Correct. And that amendment is to a motion to proceed. However, it adjusts the appropriations so that monies are coming out of the capital fund. Yes, what it would do is reduce the loan by the $30 million and that reduction would be funded with the capital fund, correct. So, to Mr. Dunn's motion, any amendment, any discussion further? Just asking the question that leaves us with $6 million, is that what you said? Approximately $6 million. Roughly $6 million. Roughly about $6 million. I think it might be $5.8 million. So, for the next year we couldn't put money into transportation? Unless we completely... So, on our current budget, we had $3.2 million that was put into transportation. Because other projects didn't go through, is that true? I'm going to defer to Mrs. Slaughter in a second, but we had budget, no, we budgeted $3.2 million for transportation for this year. There is a transportation fund that is separate from this that has money in it for transportation purposes. So, two years ago, and these are approximations, we put in $6 to $7 million. Last year we put in $6 to $7 million. This year there's $3.2 million. So, that is a transportation fund that's for transportation projects. Okay. So, leaving that aside, there's approximately $36 million or it's probably close to $35.8 million. So, that's a lot of money if this amendment goes through. And then in June, according to our budget numbers, we're now expected to get approximately $12 million back at the end of the year. That's coming from Mr. Ballhoffer's presentation a couple months ago in which initially it was $9 million, but then he thought it would be $12 million. So, if that's the case, come June 30, we should have approximately that $12 million and the approximate $6 million. Thank you. So, to your question, two years ago we put over $7 million into transportation and three years ago we did the same. So, with this amendment we would no longer have $7 million to put in. We'd be depending on rollover funds to have enough to do that. There are other things we spent out of the capital fund, including school buses. I forget how much, a million dollars, however much we spent. We wouldn't have those funds either. We'd be depending on unspent funds to show up in order to be able to do that next year. So, those are the impacts to make clear of accepting this amendment. Vice Chair? Just one other recollection just very recently. We looked at the smart scale applications that were being forwarded and while we don't know whether we're going to have success with those applications, I if my memory is correct, we agreed that we would participate in that funding. And now I know that we could say we're not going to do it, but I don't think that is going to put the county in a very good position. Do you recall that discussion, Mr. Bolhofer? Yeah, the idea was to continue funding and just from a more broader is the last year after discussions just to make the budget work, they dropped that down to three. Three point some million dollars. The intention was to go with the full seven million dollars on a yearly basis, which would be the needed funds to have the money necessary for all the smart scale projects and some of the secondary projects as well. The smart scale applications that were just recently submitted, the 3.2 would cover the county share that we've agreed upon because I thought the 3.2 was for prior projects. The 3.2 that we just funded was for prior, yes. It wasn't for the current smart scale applications that our board endorsed at a recent board meeting. I am not certain about that. But I will tell you that the idea was from the planning department, it was their belief on an ongoing basis to meet smart scale revenue sharing and to do those subsidiary projects for instance, when you're looking to do the matching funds by the middle school, elementary school intersection, that seven million was probably the minimum amount they needed on a yearly basis to meet all those needs. Mr. Chair, I, Ms. McKinney-Large, yes. I've said it enough at the transportation meetings with you. Your recollection is the same as mine. Absolutely. I'm right there with you in line. And I'm a little concerned that we're depleting more from this that we've already said that we would support. So that's my concern with the full 30 million if my recollection is correct. That was the discussion, that if we do move forward with that, we would need that money. Absolutely, with smart scale. So, yes ma'am. I don't know what the number is. I suspect that it's not the full 30 million that Supervisor Dunn is speaking to. But I, honestly, I don't know what that number was that we said we would support at the at this moment in time. So, Mrs. Slaughter? Yes, sir. If this amendment goes through, you'll have about $6 million left. If you remember on the budget, you're expected to get another $12 million come June. So that's $18 million. I don't know the dollar amount, but there's already money in the transportation fund which is separate from the capital fund. So there's a separate block of money there, and I don't know the amount of money that's there. But the money that we had two weeks ago, when we had that $400,000 differential or whatever it was, the money would be there to cover that differential. That's a fact whether this goes through or doesn't go through, but that money is there to cover that differential. That's assuming there's $12 million, right? The finance director had not used the $12 million figure in past years. They had estimated much below that. Mr. Chairman, so, you're right. The $5.8 million still would give you the $400,000 for what we talked about two weeks ago. And Mr. Chairman, if you remember, Mr. Ballhopper, on a presentation he had done a couple months ago, put up on that screen that we would expect to get $12 million come June. So that's what we're dealing with. And from my perspective, this is a capital fund issue, so pay for it. And then the question is, if the capital fund is small, then we as a board need to figure out how to go and increase county revenue and or cut expenses and or deal with the cost of people moving in here, which is impact fees. And that would, that's an issue we just have to really wrestle with. But I don't think that we can go and use the capital fund as a supplement for the operating fund when we have a true capital project that's going to cost us money if we have to, you know, if we have to use all of it. So I'm trying to save us some money by taking $30 million out, saving $19.5 million for interest over the next 20 years. That's less money that we have to figure out how to raise on an operational budget. So, by sharing your concern about over-committing and not having the funds to meet our obligations to the state on smart scale or elsewhere, and I guess my only answer to Supervisor Dunn is we could always use the capital fund when the debt is actually being drawn on the project later. We could adjust the way we're doing it. The only other thought that occurs to me on the smart scale is that those projects would be six years out before we would most likely have to put forward our commitment. So there would be time, but I just want to make everyone aware that there is a possibility of that. Call for a question, please. Mr. Chair. I would just have a concern with that amount of money, $30 million depleting that capital fund, and that severely, I would be more in favor of a smaller amount, maybe in the $10 to $15 range, $10 to $15 million range. Similar to your $14 million for A&E, but we didn't approve that. Yeah, I agree. I can't support taking $30 million out when we don't know what our smart scale results or our expenses will be for next year. That's me. You've called the question. Is there a second on that? Call for a question. I'll second. Very good. So on Supervisor Dunn's amendment to take $30 million out of the capital fund, leaving $6 million currently, to amend the original motion, Supervisor Jewell? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Supervisor Dunn, I second your motion for discussion purposes. I can't vote for it, so no. Vice Chair? No. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Supervisor Liero? No. The Chair votes no. So we've had two amendments that have failed. We're back to the original motion, which is to go through... 45 minutes now. To go with the amendment... I'm sorry. To the amendment... It's not an amendment, it's a motion, but it's titled an amendment to the 2024-25 fiscal year budget as described originally. So now we're going to have a discussion on that motion, and of course more amendments could be made, but discussion on that. We haven't had a discussion on the original motion yet. Only on amendments so far. Okay, so on the motion, we need to get this done. Simple as that. I'm just... Keep it short and sweet. We need to get it done. Thank you. So I made the motion. Any other comments on that? I'm just disappointed on the vote. I thank you for your amendment to do that, but I think that borrowing money is not productive. You're having to pay interest on that money, and that's going to come back to haunt us. Vice Chair? I don't know if this is an appropriate time to discuss that, but I think once we confirm this information on the smart scale, I would think we should be able to amend this borrowing at some time to pay cash. Would we not be able to do that, Mr. Ballhofer? Your time frame on that's short when they go to bonds, but I guess it would be, and I think Patty's there. Is Patty here? By any chance? While Patty's coming forward, they wouldn't be going to a bond and spending the full amount for years. No, but what you do is you actually borrow and do drawdowns, but Patty can answer that. Yes, because we don't borrow all the money up front, you would have plenty of time, because it would probably take eight borrowings to do the full high school, so you would have time to go back and do that, and we would just borrow less money. Thank you. You're welcome. So that would be an option for us, and I think it is truly something we should consider. I just want to make sure we haven't overcommitted ourselves. I appreciate the motion that you made. I just want to confirm for Mrs. Camry, too, that if this is approved, that we do have the opportunity instead of borrowing, for example, $151 million, you can borrow less than that, and so we're not committed to the borrowing of the total amount. That's what she said. Any other comments on the original motion? So I'd like to make a few then. Did you have comments? Okay. Mr. Varner? Could you put my second presentation up? It says FCPS on it. So on this presentation, I have a number of concerns. Most that have been raised by parents, a few are my own. I want to put them on the table. And speak to why I want to do this in phases rather than writing a blank check and not knowing what we're going to get until ribbon cutting is done. Most of these have, this includes a lot of material that's been given to me by parents. Most of it is financial. Please forgive me, but when this was assembled, a few of them may not bear on finances. If you go to the next chart. So I can be quick. Each of these is a chart or two, but other people have seen. So there's a lot of school issues that parents have brought to me and I want to walk through them. A lot of it does bear on costs. Next chart. So the school board tells us that they put children first. I believe seven year olds, they're not in tune with their sexuality. They're just developing who they are as human beings. They are certainly, they are certainly not in touch with transsexuality. It is inappropriate to put transsexual teachers in front of seven year olds. Parents are furious and they're calling me about this. The school board could have done far better with someone like this than put them as a teacher of seven year olds. Next chart. In addition, there are school policies against things like gay pride flags decorating a classroom, quite a number of things where students have found that those policies were in violation. They were only removed when students contacted us and let us know that they were going on and we were able to put this to bring it to the school board's attention. I've asked a number of parents, the school board has told me, I talked to the vice chair and some others on the school board, they told me they didn't have these complaints. So since then I've been asking parents when they come to me with things why they're not taking the school board and they said, well we're dropping our children off and we don't want the teachers or the principals and the staff mad at us or our child because they're in their care so they're bringing us to our attention. So I've not written down any of the names of the parents who have brought me these materials. On the right side of the chart is a survey that was put in a class to, I believe it was middle schoolers. It includes questions like in general, how much do white people benefit from the advantages in society that black people do not have? Well that's in tune with critical race theory questions and it's very divisive. It is very divisive. And please don't interrupt. I didn't make a single comment while you all made your comments, some of which I didn't agree with. This is a divisive subject and it does not belong in our classrooms. Next one, question 13 of 16 in the same survey. Do you think greater social acceptance of people who are transgender, people who identify a gender that is different from the sex they were assigned at birth is very good for society, somewhat good for society, neither good nor bad, somewhat or very bad for society? Don't understand why this subject is in our classroom. These kind of ideological agendas don't belong in our classroom. As has been pointed out, our SRO, our performance measured against standards of learning has not been good. And yet we're spending time on subjects like this. And for the people who are shaking their heads or upset, let me tell you something that should embarrass you. Look again at the question. In the parenthesis, defining transgender as people who identify as a gender that are different from the sex they were assigned at birth. If that kind of lunacy is what you think should be in our schools, I got news for you. You're not assigned to sex at birth. You were created with X and Y chromosomes or other chromosomes. I know exactly what it means in this kind of language, which is false, does not belong in our schools. It's ideological. It absolutely doesn't belong there. You are not fluid. You are not assigned to sex. You are created with the sex and this is errant information in our public schools. Sir. You can be the next one to be removed from the meeting. I get to speak now. Again, I didn't interrupt the single speaker. Sir, last time, either leave the meeting or I'll have an officer remove you. Thank you, sir. We're trying to finish here. It's been a long meeting. So, the deep equity I already talked about at a previous discussion. This was brought into the school system. We were told as a board that students were not taught this. Next slide. Students were taught this. That was false information this board was given. Next slide. Right now, we have locked bathrooms in all our high schools. Children may not go to the bathroom between classes. They're not just told not to. There are barriers there. They cannot do it. My son cannot go to the bathroom between classes. That's outrageous. And there's no reason for it. Instead, what children have to do, they're also not allowed to raise their hand to a teacher and ask to go to the bathroom. Did any of you go to school with those restrictions? I guarantee you, you did not. They have to apply online on their Chromebook and wait until the administration decides that they can go to the bathroom. At the same time, taxpayer dollars are being spent to have someone set a vice principal. High taxpayer dollars are being spent to have someone sit outside the bathroom. I've heard a couple of people, people have emailed me, and a couple people tonight said, this is due to overcrowding. What nonsense. Schools are overcrowded, so you're lessening the time and the numbers that can go to the bathroom. They're restricting it to five at a time. I've received other emails, including one from a high school administrator that said, no, the reason is security. My question is, how have we lost control of security that we have to operate our bathrooms in high school like a jail system? It's ridiculous. My son is supposed to hydrate. He trains every day for gymnastics. He cannot do so because his only option is to wait in line to use the bathroom, wait for approval to do so, and he doesn't want to miss instruction time. But that's what we're doing with this policy, reducing our standards of learning scores even more by forcing the bathroom time to go into the classroom time. There are also penalties in what you learn and potentially from your teachers for going to the bathroom too many times. I have to wonder if this is due to new policies that are going on nationwide that I believe we've adopted here for only positive reinforcement. So you can't punish students anymore in any way whatsoever. You can only give them a reward if they don't cause trouble. But we all know what spoiling kids and what that leads to. That does not work on our school system. And here is a price we pay in dollars as well as the comfort of our children and their ability to learn with this policy. Not happy about this at all. Next chart. And it's not just me with a child in the school. It's many parents that have contacted me about that one. Never heard of being locked out of your own bathrooms before. Next, the school system doesn't like comments like this. So they are locking down their Facebook page so that parents can no longer post their comments whether they're good or bad. Look, you as parents of school children should not have to somehow track down other parents in your neighborhood in order to exchange information. You should be able to post your concerns and let there be a free conversation. Yes, some of it will be negative. We get criticized a lot and we don't cut people off for criticizing us. That should not be listed either. Now there's new guidance coming from the state that's trying to tell us that the children cannot have cell phones or at least restricting their use in the school. I understand the concern that they're worried about. I won't belabor that here. However, many of the problems we found and asked the school board to correct many of whom Dr. Hummer appreciated and did have corrected about things breaking school policy in the classrooms. Many of them were frustrated because students took pictures of them. Parents don't see this stuff going on. Next slide, please. So, I think I'm going to skip over this section for the sake of time. This is part of that as well. We had our entire school system shut down for a day and we were never as parents, I know, because it involved my child's school. So I got all the alerts. We were never told in the end exactly what it had to do with. Next slide. This is the final one we got on that one. They said there were three reasons. One of them was a social media post that wasn't in Virginia and it didn't involve Virginia schools. One of them was a potential threat someone worried about that was not credible. So neither of those were reasons to shut down our entire school system for a day. The most uncertain one is the one on top. It is said that a juvenile who was believed to be armed was reported in the area of three different schools, Millbrook, Redbud, and Dow J. Howard. Now Dow J. Howard is miles from those other two schools. So I don't know what they're talking about but we shut down an entire school system for a day and never got an explanation for that. That's another lack of transparency. Next slide. Mr. Chairman, call for questions. I understand. I even finished my comment. Mr. Chairman, I'm calling for questions. I'm calling for the vote on the motion. I believe everyone gets one chance to speak. This is my one chance on this motion. Next slide, please. I'm nearly done. You can skip this one. This is on how we can't reach our kids at school. Recently the school board voted to hire the daughter of the school board chairman to fill a newly defined, highly paid administrative position. This violated Virginia law in at least two ways. The vote was not conducted properly where the chairman with a direct conflict of interest voted and state law was not followed. The school system was supposed to, in writing, notify the school board members that they were voting on a family member of the chairman to take a highly paid administrative position. This was not done. Another, this is a violation of the law. I need to know if this is being investigated and what's being done about it or how it's being corrected. Next slide. So there's a lot of spending. We got a request in the last year saying that we should, as taxpayers, pay for all the kids' meals at a cost of more than two million dollars per year. I won't go through all these. We also have proposals on the table today with no realignment of children to under-filled schools as part of the solution in order to reduce the cost. We're just going to spend money and expand the schools and leave the other schools under-populated. Next slide. The school system were the only county in Virginia that made this error. The federal government provided funds to Virginia to help some needy people pay for their school lunches. We were told as a county that we're supposed to provide a list of students that had too little money and who needed this. Instead, our school system sent a list of every single person in the school system. And the Virginia Department of Education didn't catch the idea that the school system was going to be a problem. They didn't catch that the entire school population was declared by our administration to be needy. This is costing Virginia one, two million dollars. I know it's at least a million dollars. Let's hope they don't come back to the county and ask us to pay for that million dollar error. Next chart. The county has provided a clinic I just found out about. Parents let me know about this this week. This is Valley Health near my house. On the right you can see a zoom in on the door. Valley Health is sitting and they've set up a clinic for school teachers and their families with no waiting policy. I don't know about you but I don't have a no waiting policy nor do we pay for that for our administrative staff in the county. Only the school is doing this. It was listed in their budget for $650,000 per year. That's two thirds of a million dollars. Here we are talking about spending many millions. A recent national study came out that we in this county are above average. We have a five month wait if you need to get established as a citizen with insurance with a new primary care provider. It would be nice if I could walk in and have with no wait. But I cannot do that. Next. This one is also a new one. I am told that we do not verify that the kids going to our school actually live in the county after the first time. I'm not sure if that's true. You register your kid at kindergarten and 12 years later you could still be attending the school. You might have moved to West Virginia. But there is no rigorous system of asking you for your license or where you are filing your taxes. We know that you, the county taxpayers are not paying for kids from other counties or other states. In James Wood High School I drove through the county drive through lane once after people asked me to do so. And in one drive through the lane I saw three cars dropping off students with West Virginia license plates. I've also been told that in the student lot there's a large number of cars there not in the teacher lot but in the student lot with West Virginia license plates. If I take the numbers from what I saw in just a momentary look at James Wood High School and I extrapolate that I end up with hundreds of potential students who are out of county attending our schools. This is not the number that I was giving from the school administration. One hundred and about five kids for each number of those who we don't know are coming here from out of county is about a million dollars per year in what we have to pay. And it's more money from our state government as well that they pay. This school system while West Virginia was dealt with because it's obvious on the plate. But on the Virginia plate they might also be from out of our county and not paying taxes toward our county. So we need to be verifying before we put out millions of dollars that we don't have an overcrowding problem partly due to being lax and letting large numbers of people attend our schools who don't actually live in the county and do not pay property taxes here. That is something there are high incentives to come to this school system. If you live in West Virginia and you don't have a property tax to go to their public school there are no waivers like there are here for vaccines. So how many people are living there but have decided when that happened after COVID that they want to put their kids here? They can do that. Next chart. So last chart. I am very worried about the potential for tax increases. In seven weeks we're going to get a report from the commissioner of the revenue on our second largest income source I wanted to wait until that time to make this decision so we know what dollars are coming in. There are supervisors telling you that we have plenty of money and we don't need to raise taxes. They are in general the three supervisors to my right who lobbied our two delegates and our state senator to override our governor and enable us to institute an up to $20 million sales tax in our state. So we are going to have to do that. And we are going to have to do that in the county. So if you think there is no need for more funds, why are you lobbying to raise our taxes? I didn't do that. So if you are talking about three, you can eliminate me out of that. Very good. Then there is a mystery supervisor because the other two did tell me they had lobbied and that they had three. And so did our delegates. Mr. Chairman, call for the questions, please. I have two concerns about the school system. We would know a lot more in seven weeks. Those are my concerns and the concerns of parents. Not happy at all with a lot of the policies that are being pursued in the county. And so I will not vote at this time to commit money that I don't even know we have. Those are my comments. Now we move to the vote. This is a vote on as stated unchanged despite multiple amendments as printed so the public can see in our agenda amendment to the 2024-25 fiscal year budget to spend on three schools on the order of $180 million the exact figures are printed and to commit to that now. That's the motion. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Per said reasons and the blank check, no. I vote aye. Vice chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The chair votes no. I just hope the taxpayers can afford this. Mr. Balafer, what do we have to do? The next phase? The next item is for the actual borrowing the bond and it's, I'm not going to do the same presentation because the presentation covers the same things but it does require a public hearing for this by law. So is this another public hearing item right now? Correct. Have you got anyone signed up for this one? No. So people can speak on this phase of it. It's issuing a bond. It's empowering the school system, is that right? To seek a bond for all those dollars we just approved. It approves seeking those bonds and I believe as Patty stated earlier since it comes in when they need it, they do have the ability going forward to lower that amount in case you decide to use more from the capital fund as she stated earlier. Right. But we're authorizing the establishment of bond with these limits. Correct. Up to 180 180 million, 136,581 dollars and 30 cents. So is there anyone, no one signed up, is there anyone of the public who would like to speak on taking on a 181 million dollar authorizing a bond to over 181 million dollars? Sir your name and magisterial district please. Joseph Brand, Stonewall District. I really wish you would already know the cost of borrowing this before you bring it to vote here. Just doing an online search because we have the numbers here. 180 million dollars borrowed at 5% rate over 20 years is going to be a total cost of 285 million dollars, 105 million of which is interest. And our monthly payments is 1.2 million dollars, roughly 15.6 million dollars that we have to pay in our budget every year. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Sorry, is there anyone else? Name and magisterial district please. It's Vic Stonewall. I'd just like to say that I appreciate all that you brought up there and all that you said and I want to say I wholeheartedly agree with it 100%. I also want to say I'm very disappointed in Mr. Jewell. I believe Mr. Dunn you spoke out to Mr. Jewell especially several times. I thought it was very disrespectful. You're giving your time. I've seen the chairman sit very patiently waiting for the things you have to say too. That's disrespectful. I don't think you should be doing that. You're a bad example in that way. Also, I would ask you to vote no against giving him that. And I think you were 100% right. Next. Anyone else please queue up. Joy Kirk, Backfeet District. I would like to thank you for voting in favour, the majority of you, for our children. And I ask you to vote again on the bond in favour of it so that we can continue to move forward as we need to. Thank you. Thank you. And I ask that you vote yes on the bond in favour of it so that we can continue to move forward as we need to as a school division and as a community. Thank you. Anyone else? Seeing no one, I close the public hearing portion of this item. Mr. Chairman, I make the motion for 11B. I move for the adoption of the resolution as presented authorizing the issuance of general obligation school bonds. We have a motion. Do we have a second? make an amendment to this motion and that is to delay approval of seeking the bonds until our December 11 meeting when we have a report from the Commission or the revenue and we have an idea of what our income is going to be in the future. I like that idea. Second that. We have a motion to second. Any discussion of the amendment? Seeing no one, the vote is on the amendment which is to delay approving the bond issuance. We've already approved doing the project. It's to avoid seeking the bonds and getting started until December 11th and I might add that also gives us time to get the RFP moving so that we have some safeguards in place for our responsibility. So that's my motion with the second. Discussion is closed. Supervisor Jewell? No. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Okay. Supervisor Wells? So. Vice Chair? No. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? No. Chair votes aye. The amendment fails. We're back to the original motion. Any other discussion or amendments? I see open mics but I don't know if anyone wants to speak. Supervisor Lockridge? According to 11a we just appropriated the funds. I think it's only smart that we wait until the Commissioner gives us a report to see where the money is. So I think this is just another layer of our responsibility to the taxpayer. Thank you. I appreciate that but we just lost on that motion to delay it. Just explaining what it will be a no. Okay so there we are. If there's no other discussion, we're voting on the bond motion, the original one. Supervisor...let me make sure I try and do this consistently. Doesn't make a difference but I try to give you each a a chance to go first. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Vice-Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes no. But the approval for seeking the bonds is approved. Now we only have those two on our agenda. You said there was a third phase? Yes, a part of 11B is where you pass the resolution which enables you to reimburse yourself any funds from the bond issuance for any expenses you incur until you receive those funds. That's the standard that's done with these bonds. Do we need to read that resolution or no? I'm not sure Parliament directly whether we need to do that. We might need to read it. I don't know if the public needs to read to them. I actually have it here somewhere. So this should be available on our website if we don't have to. But we always want to follow the rules here and if we have to read out a resolution we should do so. We might be a little unsure. We don't have a County Attorney right now. So that doesn't help. Yes, it's not required to be read? It is not. Not required. Mr. Chairman, it's just in your packet like any other resolution. You're adopting the resolution as presented, right? Does the public have access currently? Absolutely. It's in your packet. The agenda packet on our website. So anyone that wants to know how to see it, you're welcome to come forward after the meeting and we can show you how to get access to anything we post. Very good then we can go straight with the vote on the resolution. We need a motion first. Mr. Chairman I make a motion that for we for the adoption of the resolution declaring the official intent of Frederick County to reimburse itself for certain capital expenditures related to the construction of certain projects with proceeds of debt. We have a motion. Do we have a second? We have a motion to second. Any discussion? Hearing none we'll proceed to a vote on the resolution. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Chair votes aye. The resolution is passed and that is all of item 11. Thank you. We don't have anything under items 12 or 13. Board Liaison reports do we have any? I have a small report. Please. Public safety met last Thursday and we discussed with the fire and rescue going through and a report or an audit of their systems. We have broken it up into different sections. We met with Chairman Ludwig and I met with Mr. Lerner. We met with the Chiefs workgroup I guess Thursday evening at Round Hill with our County Administrator as well and they are coming up with a committee to give us some better feedback of what they're searching for and things that may help and provide for them and that should be within he said four to six weeks. We will have some feedback on that. So that's all I've got. Thank you. I just like to add for anyone concerned. So we're growing as a county. We're becoming more urban. We're building a new fire station and hiring more firefighters than they are. We're building a new fire station and hiring more firefighters than they are. We're building a new fire station and hiring more firefighters than they are. We're building a new fire station and hiring more firefighters than they are. We're building a new fire station for people in our county too and I am suggesting that for those first sharing because we just wish that wait a minute that we can increase service to the county. We decided that we should looking We're building a new fire station and hiring more firefighters than they are. We're building a new fire station and hiring more firefighters than they are. We're building a new fire station and hiring more firefighters than they are. We're building a new fire station and hiring more firefighters than they are. We're building a new fire station and hiring more firefighters than they are. Well let me invite Mayor Horne to speak just a little bit. So day — I think next 12 minutes that we have. A really good story all of them. We're doing a amo remedy and I'm doing anacio inspect all of em and I spent two hours all our volunteer fire stations and they built them so I give them great credit over the history of this county but they all buy their fire trucks individually they're not necessarily consistent you can train as a firefighter at one location be somewhere else in the county when a fire breaks out you might not be able to operate the equipment there that's just one example so we're trying to be efficient with tax dollars after we got ready to bring it to a vote to do this study we had some objection from the volunteer system itself and that's why we met with the volunteer chiefs to get their input and after that discussion it was great and they do have some comments they want to see if we want to amend the study so that they're happy with what we're doing as well so I'm sorry to add to the comment but I want to explain where we're at in that process any other board liaison reports hearing no, none we'll move to final citizen comments miss Phillips you told me no one had signed up originally we do have one now Vaughn Whitaker very good mr. Whitaker would you like to speak so I'll repeat so that for the record mr. Whitaker said that he declines to speak a lot's been said and was there anything else I didn't capture so you don't have to get a that's it thank you so is there anyone else who wants to speak thanks Tammy from the Stonewell district and first of all I'd like to thank mr. Ludwig and miss Lockridge thank you for trying to be financially fiscally right for us holding the we have some of our serve for you, may I have a chance horns in just a brief second, call me. responsible Elvis Presley has a song wise men say only fools rushed in and I know that's a love song but what I saw here tonight Mr. Dunn thank you for trying to find a way to have a less debt I really appreciate that and the income tax or the sales tax suggestion you made the last time what I saw here tonight I was so disappointed in you guys that voted to rush in and give a blank check to a school district that as Mr. Ludwig has shown us has not been able to be trusted who is being controlled by the federal propaganda government and has screwed up on several schools not just one the phase thing was the most financially responsible thing and so I do not thank you for wasting my tax money and hopefully it doesn't hit you as you walk out the door but it's kind of like it's right and it reminded me of Pelosi saying let's pass this bill so we can see what's in it and that's exactly what happened tonight thanks for showing us how it can happen on a local level I see one more Mr. Chairman Tim from the Back Creek District as I told you earlier I have don't care either way for the schools what I do want you to notice is the people that have left already how much more quiet the room has become and how these people who are so disrespectful to me Mr. Ludwig and a lot of other people on this board. And they're supposed to be representing our schools? Fortunately, the people that represent the schools working there were very cooperative and very nice. But the people sitting back in this back corner should have all been thrown out. And I do appreciate you gaveling out those that would not shut up. Thank you. Thank you. So they all have to get up and teach tomorrow. So that's why a lot of them left. To the thing about rushing in, rushing in would have been building a school about three years after Millbrook opened. It is not rushing in to build a new high school that's not going to open for about 25 years after Millbrook opens. So I thank the five members of the Board of Supervisors that voted for this funding. And one last comment is that. I don't know what the deal is with Jermaine comments, but what you went off on with your slide presentation, I have no idea what that had to do with building a school. Good evening. Anyone else? James Mulder, Back Creek District. What his comments has to do with building a new school is the trustworthy of the school board. Shame on you. Mr Jewel. Nobody never tells you to be quiet. Shame on you. Mr Don. Every month after month, you bring the same presentation. Nobody never tells you to be quiet. First time the chairman wants to speak his feelings about this subject. Everybody wants to shut him up. Shame on all of you that voted for this free money for the school. That's what it is a blank check. Next time you up for election. You're going to see. Me in your district campaigning against you. Thank you, Miss Lockridge. Thank you, Mr Logger. We for your support trying to be feels physically conservative. Mr Leroy. I'm ashamed that I went out this past summer and campaign for you to be up here. You won't be up here. You won't have my campaign support next year when you're running for reelection. Right? You got money. Is there anyone else? Hey, um, good evening. Miles Shawnee District. Um, I know it's tough decision, right? All around. Um, presentation was made and there was some things set up on this board that are frankly true. You know, um, in the past, um, schools weren't built the way they should have been built. Um, I'm just up here to pledge that as the chairman of building and grounds committee. Um, we are excited to work with everybody. Uh, we want to do this for the county. Do it responsibly. Um, I like actually all the ideas that came came about, you know, from the phase in project, um, to, you know, finding different ways to save money, um, without paying a lot of interest on it. You know, this kind of thinking that we need. And I hope you guys bring those same kind of thoughts to this project. Um, there's different ways we can call save. Um, you know, I'm not going to be. The arbiter of construction here, but, um, I know that Mr Wells got some construction experience as well. So I look forward to tapping into all those resources. So you have my commitment to be physically responsible with this project. Um, I know all the dust is still going to settle on this, but, um, let's get it done. Right. Cheers. I see one more. Thankfully, the last one, I guess. So I think. Uh, someone district. I do want to thank you all for your time consideration tonight. This very important issue. Uh, I do want to just ask as you look at the RFP amendments that allow for the board to have an architect and supervision that you consider how you can also veto the decisions that are being made in favor of what the board is representing over what the school board is presenting. Uh, so please give us the accountability and visibility into what this RFP amendment is going to look like for how you will have a view into this. Or will you have a veto into what is being done so we can see that this is truly being done in the taxpayers interest. Thank you. Believe one more and then I'm going to close after the speaker unless someone jumps up right now and gets in queue. Okay, go ahead. I'll be quick. Um, I just wanted to thank you all for being here tonight because I know how difficult it is as a teacher to stand in front of people who are being mean to you. That happens to me on the daily. So no matter what side you are on. On this issue today. I mean you guys do a great job. It's very very hard to be a public servant. We're both public servants just in very different ways. So thank you for your time. Thank you for this vote. And um, I hope that this goes very well. I'm going to go home so I can teach in the morning because I love kids and I love my job. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. So I'm closing the close my computer. So let me make sure. I'm not going to miss anything. Citizen comments are closed. Board of Supervisor comments. Do we have any? Yes, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Liero. Just a couple things. I'll try to be quick. I've been around Frederick County for a long time. In the late 80s early 90s. I tried looking this up in Winchester Star couldn't figure it out. Probably about 89 maybe 90. There was a similar meeting to tonight for the considering opening up. The Toronto in 1993. I don't know if you're familiar with the old JC penny building back on the Loudon Street Mall here, but that was not where the normal board of Supervisors meetings were being held. It was a much bigger space. So they decided to have the meeting there. I was sort of expecting a repeat of that meeting here tonight in that meeting. There was about three times the amount the amount of people that were there were here. And basically the meeting went very much like this and it was all we can't afford Sharando. It's it's too much money. I even remember the specific. Comment that was made about the fact that when you walk in Sharando, you got the offices to the right and you got the auditorium to the left. They had a an Indian Warrior on the wall there and that was too much money and so on. As Mr. Wells and others have said, you know, we you know, there weren't substantial tax increases for those buildings. If you I'd invite you to go back to the Winchester Star and do what I did. If you have a subscription to the online version, just type in fourth High School and you'll get various you'll get various articles about the debates that happened in 2013. In 2017. All those debates basically went similar to these the one the one that we had this evening and it revolved around the need for a new high school versus being fiscally responsible. The the people who are being fiscal and I'm not trying to throw anybody under the bus because I was an administrator at this time, but the people that were trying to be fiscally conservative fiscally responsible in 2013. Didn't build the fourth High School for 64 million dollars. Okay, the ones who were trying to be fiscally conservative did not building a high school build a new high school in 2017 for 91 million dollars. So they were so fiscally conservative that they left it to this board in 2024. And we're now having to spend what we will we're spending tonight. Had we not acted tonight. As one of our speakers said, future board would be back here looking at 200 or 250 million dollars to build this fourth High School. The population is not going away. This year. I talked to Mr. Pearson, our director of planning the other day. We're on pace to build a thousand new residential units this year alone. I looked at the future of our building. And in Frederick County, Mr. Dunn mentioned it was about 13,000 homes of those 13,000 5,000 are pretty set to be done in the next several years. So according to Mr. Pearson, he thinks that the thousand homes being built this year is going to be replicated every year for the next four or five years. Mean. Meanwhile, we're opening the building now. Hopefully in 2029, but there's going to be a thousand more homes every year between now and 2029. I appreciate the people talking about fiscal responsibility. I've been a fiscal response. I've been a fiscally responsible person my entire life, but I don't think it's fiscally responsible to not. Build a building in 2013 for 64 million then have to turn around and pay almost three times that amount. Right now. So anyway, that's all I have. Mr. Chair. Thank you. Any other board comments? Can I can I go back at that for just a moment? Supervisor Lockridge supervisor Liero. If you remember correctly in my amendment, I don't think and I maybe won't speak to chairman, but I don't think we said no. And I think we all have admitted that there is an overcrowding issue. So my know was that I do. I am not okay with a blank check. And then I thought it needed to be done in phases. And I showed you because of James Woods project because of Jordan Spring, which just was in 2021. And then of course, Frederick County Middle was built way beyond its means what we what we should have been cost. So that was the reasoning behind that amendment. Thank you. Thank you. Miss chair. Can I make one more comment? We keep hearing this. We keep hearing worth. We keep hearing this the statement blank check. It's not a blank check. There was a mount on the on the check. Okay. Any other supervisor comments supervisor done. So just a couple comments from general audience. I've been through this before. Some of us have been through this for a few years ago. I've made some comments earlier on, you know, respecting each other. Those woman that came up here said, please don't boo me. And when she walked back, she was booed. I've had people here that said, I will not come and talk for fear of that. So whether you're clapping or whether you're billing, it's just totally inappropriate. We're running a business meeting. If you try to do that in the US Senate or the US House, you'd be thrown out immediately. That's comment. Wonder more one comment number two. The seven of us sometimes agree and sometimes we disagree on policy. But when Mr. Ludwig was speaking, he had the right to speak without being interrupted. And for those people that were interrupting, that's also wrong. I've been booed when I've been up here, but we're trying to lay out policy. And so at least you can disagree. You can be, but you don't just go and boom. If you disagree, come up like some people have done. Say, Mr. Dunn, I disagree with you. Here's why. And we have a conversation on that. But we need as a community to be respectful of each other, even if we disagree and we will disagree. I think also we're trying to collectively solve problems and we will disagree on how to arrive at those problems. But we're all in Frederick County. We're all basically trying to solve a problem for all of us. So that's one comment I think I want to make. And we'll come back to Mr. Ludwig. The comments you were making will be good comments for our budget when we go into our operational budget this year. And we'll see what happens on that. And for the school board members that are here, you know, work with us. Use the money wisely. If you can go and get something for 90 cents instead of a dollar, do so. But recognize that, you know, we are giving you a block of money to try to do something. We don't know what the cost of steel or concrete or wood is going to be three or four years from now, but be prudent and also recognize that in your operational budget, for example, pre-K, school lunches, et cetera. There are other ways that you might be able to go and save money to help pay the interest on that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other supervisor comments? Hearing none, I have just a couple. So I want to answer questions. We do answer. We just can't do it at the time when you're speaking from people who commented today. Just two of them. One of the citizens said we should be making the developers pay for their impact to the community. Unfortunately, Richmond, the state state law restricts us in in how much we can ask people moving into the county and developers, building the homes to put in against the projects. However, I would say that had we built the fourth high school those many years ago, that's exactly what would not have happened. Once the school is built, we're under capacity. The only money were allowed to collect from developers as proffers is when we were at full capacity. So had we built a high school, what is it seven eight years ago? We have been very far under capacity. In all our high schools for all these years and the monies that we've been collecting for developers who are building these homes, who wouldn't have been able to get. So that's a very big factor in this. The other citizen who talked about control that we should exercise. He hopes our control over this project that goes forward and the phrase blank check. Unfortunately, when we authorize a project to completion without doing it in phases, we give up most of it. We have authorized the full amount needed to do this. I'm very worried that we will get will have funds wasted or things built that aren't needed. So here's since we've given up most of our control. Certainly if we have any left, I'll be pursuing that. We have to hope the following two things that this board will approve the RFP that Mr. Ball, Hoffer has worked on so that we can have an independent engineering entity attend all the design meetings. And let us know if we're building the most efficient school and getting the most for our dollar. Hey, I hope this board will do so. B, we have to hope that the superintendent and the chairman of building and grounds on the school board honors their commitments. They made to allow full transparency to the public and to this contractor. If we should hire them, I believe they will and if not, I'll be going to school board members myself and seeing if they can force that door open. You taxpayers have just been signed up for a huge expense and you deserve transparency. That's all that piece of this is is being asked for that. We have professionals in the industry. Watch the design and construction and confirm that we're not blowing your money. Those are my comments. That's the end of supervisor comments. Vice chair. I move we adjourn. We have a motion. Do we have a second? All in favor? Favor of adjourning? Say aye. Aye. We are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
