Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2022-01-26
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=118
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman McCarthy, would you lead us in the pledge, please? Do you all stand and face the flag? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. Adoption of the agenda. Are there any proposed changes? I make a motion. We approve the agenda as presented. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Thank you, sir. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the agenda as presented. This is the citizen comment portion of the meeting for agenda items only that are not subject to public hearing. Does anyone sign up? Mr. Bohoffer. Thank you, sir. The consent agenda, how would the board like to handle that? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. Motion and a second. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the consent agenda as presented. Board of Supervisors comments, are there any? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. So there's somebody from the county that called me wanting to talk about... Can you hear me? So there's somebody that called me last week wanting to talk about county business. And his name was garbled and the phone number is garbled. So if you'd call me and were trying to get a hold of me, please call again. I'd be glad to discuss, but what occurred, I couldn't understand. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Graver. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I received a lot of phone calls this week and really the last six days, five days, regarding the school board's decision on masks. I wanted to let folks know that this board has no authority over the school board and the masks other than we control them. We're also not even aware of the financials in the money that we give to the school board, which is your money from the taxpayers. I am watching the situation very closely as I believe that it is your choice as a citizen and as a parent to decide whether your child should or should not be obligated to wear a mask. Having said that, the governor has an executive order that will be obviously before the state Supreme Court that should ultimately decide this situation. If the governor does not have an executive order, we're not going to be able to make any decision. We're not going to be able to make any decision. We're not going to be able to make any decision. We're not going to be able to make any decision. We're not going to be able to make any decision. If in two weeks the Supreme Court has ruled to uphold that executive order, and should in two weeks the school board still not have decided to honor that executive order, I would at that point ask this board to consider a significant reduction of funding, 25 to 35 percent of the existing budget for the school system, in order to put a little bit of emphasis on the need for parental choice. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I also am disappointed in the progress in restoring parents' rights with respect to the Virginia Constitution regarding parents being the sole determiner of their children's health and education. The governor's executive order is fully in agreement with the Virginia Constitution, unlike Senate Bill 1303, which not only violates the parental rights guaranteed in our state Constitution, but it also surrenders state authority to an unelected, federal bureaucracy. Now, I believe our governor and our attorney general, when they say they are working to overturn this bill, and that they are also presenting their case to the Commonwealth Supreme Court, they have asked us, as has the lieutenant governor, Winsome Sears, for patience. But it is far past time to restore rights to families that should never have been taken away. I also encourage this board to investigate options to restore those rights at the earliest opportunity. I'm new to this board. But I am investigating those options, and I plan to encourage our school board to reconsider their vote on the matter and return to compliance with the governor's executive order and the principles of the Commonwealth Constitution. Lastly, I'd like to say I also support Mr. Graber's proposal. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor McArthur. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would echo both of the prior supervisors' comments. I would also point out that part of our legislative agenda. This session sent down to Richmond was an item regarding school choice, money following the student to where they need to go. I think what's going on currently with our public school system is just a reinforcement of the need for this option for our parents. So if we can't get the type of education that the parents need in our public schools, then I would like to see those taxpayer dollars go with those students to where they need to go in order to get that education, unless our school system gets their act together. And it goes back to the basics of teaching, the basics of education and giving parents a say in what's happening with their children's lives and their futures. Even to the point where I would entertain us considering some type of an incentive on our part in funding parents' ability to put their children into alternate schools, whether that be some type of charter school or private school or some other alternative. Because school choice, I think, is foundational to our freedom and our democracy. And without that. I think the future of this nation is at risk, not just the future of those children in particular, but our entire nation. So I would echo those same sentiments. That being said, while we're on the subject of schools, switching gears just a little bit, for years ever since I've been on this board, I think this is the fourth or fifth time, I've said that I would like to see a more robust version of the school's budget. I've spoken with several of the board members. They, too, would like to see a more robust version of their budget. There's been some progress made. They went from a one-page. handout two years ago to a 15-page handout last year. I would like us to get to the 4,000-page book that Mike Lake talked about, at least have the school board members have access to that so they can be reviewing their budget, if not provided to us. I would also like to see us presented with their budget this year in the same format as last year, as the categorical funding, so we can see how everything breaks down by the categories. So before tonight is out, I'd like to make a motion, whenever it's appropriate, Mr. Chairman. To ask that we send a letter from our board to theirs requesting that their proposal be in that categorical format again this year. All right, sir. Let's do that under. We didn't have a need for them, so some of our headings are missing. Mr. Chairman, I think you could do that under item 8B, under county officials. Okay. That's a good one. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any further comments? Anyone? All right. Let's move on. Item number 8A. Ms. Perkins, thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, this is a request from Abundant Life Church to authorize Frederick Water to serve four properties totaling about six acres. The subject property is a public water and sewer. The subject properties, if I can direct you to the screen on your left, are located on Old Charlestown Road. It's directly across from the future park site. You have the Stonebridge development in this area and the Jordan Springs Elementary School. Now, these properties are zoned RA rural areas, and the applicant does propose to construct a church on the property. I would note that that is a permitted use in the RA district, and the comprehensive plan does indicate these properties to remain rural in nature. Thank you. Thank you. So the swaza in this area, as you can see, is this green line. So properties on, you can see, kind of the left side are in the sewer water service area, and these properties are outside of the limits. Due to being outside the limits of the sewer water service area, the board of supervisors would have to grant what's called a special exception in order to authorize Frederick Water to serve the properties. In those first current availability, there is a water line that runs along Old Charlestown, and then a narrow down road that could serve the property. However, sewer would necessitate an extension from Snowden Bridge through the park site in the future. And with this request, since it's not moving, it's not proposed to move the boundaries of the swaza, it does not require public hearing, and the board, if you choose, can approve this tonight. So with that, we're seeking a decision from the board on this request. I'd be glad to answer any questions. And Mr. Ron Misalowski with Pannonia is here on behalf of the application. Thank you. Questions, Mrs. Biese? Mr. We'll get to that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Perkins anyone thank you ma'am mr. miss Kofi anything you'd like to add sir chairman rama social with Pinoni I don't really have anything that and miss Perkins comments but if there's questions I'd be happy to answer thank you sir questions of mr. Saluki anyone thank you mr. I'm sorry I'm sorry Ron hey so miss Perkins comments on the sore who paid who'd pay for that if that weren't church would fund any costs associated with any utility extensions to the site thank you thank you sir all right how would the board like to handle the request exception mr. chairman I would make a motion to extend water and sewer service outside the limits as an exception for abundant life church 7-5 1-1 6 1 o Charlestown Road second ocean and a second is there any discussion supervisor Graver I supervisor done I supervisor McArthur supervisor Wells supervisor slaughter find supervisor from county 삝 nar, NJ, Sweetland, sorrows, lornton penny 이번에 I'm not going to sap some street like good paisley nokia in Maryland, moslems on the west coast don't take all of the esses g圭 the Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. That'll bring us to appointments. Boards, Social Services Board. Sorry Mr. Chairman, we had Supervisor McCarthy's item as 8B. Yeah, we added 8B. Thank you Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a motion that this board send a letter requesting that the school board provide their school budget presentation to us and the categorical funding format as they did last year. Second. Motion and a second. Discussion? Anyone? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes no. Motion carries. That now ends the discussion. I think we'll bring us to 9A, Social Services Board appointment. Redbud? Supervisor Dunn? Mr. Chairman, I'd like to go and nominate Eric Lawrence for the Winchester-Winchester Service Authority. He's done a good job and I'd like to re-appoint him. I'm sorry. I apologize. Go ahead. So let's nominate Diane Payne, the Social Services Board member. She's a good asset to that group. She's physically responsible. She's empathetic with people. I highly recommend her. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. She'll be appointed. Winchester Regional Airport Authority is a vacant four-year term. There's an attached application of RET campaign. How would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to appoint RET Champlain to the Winchester Regional Airport Authority. Motion. Is there a second? Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Champlain is appointed. Board of Zoning Appeals, a five-year term Redbud. Supervisor Dunn? Mr. Chairman, I'd like to nominate Eric Roman to be reappointed. He's a good asset to that group. He's done a good job. He'll reappointed. He's currently the chair. He runs a fair meeting. I think he's done a good job, so I'd recommend his reappointment. Second. Thank you, sir, and a second. And is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Lohman is appointed. That'll bring us to committee business, the finance committee. Supervisor Slaughter. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. The finance committee met on January 19th at 8 a.m. Items number 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 were considered on consent. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Aye. Item number 1, the Winchester-Frederick County Tourism Request ARPA Fund Supplemental Appropriation in the amount of $160,000. This amount represents ARPA funds allocated to localities by the Commonwealth of Virginia via the Virginia Tourism Corporation. Frederick County must serve as the pass-through entity. If the funds are not completely expended in the current fiscal year, they will be carried forward to subsequent years until eligibility period is complete. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor? Aye. Whoops. Aye. No. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. The Parks and Recreation Director requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $105,000. This amount represents proffer funds. For the construction of the playground at Sharando Park, this item was approved by the Parks and Recreation Commission. No local funds required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number three. Addison and쟁 Are you Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number six, the Director of Elections requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $150,000. This amount represents funds needed for expenses to accommodate seven new precincts. Due to redistricting, local funds are required. The Director of Elections amended the request at the meeting to include eight precincts for $150,000. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Aye. Second. Got it. Thank you, sir. Motion is second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number 12, the Sheriff requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $3,784.29. This amount represents funds received for recycling scrap metal and will be used for firing range supplies. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor, I'm sorry. Supervisor, I'm sorry. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. And lastly, Mr. Chairman, I would just also like to acknowledge the receipt of awards by the Frederick County Finance Department for their budget document and also the PAFR and thanks to Mrs. Schiffler, Mrs. Place, and Mrs. Kibler for their excellent work. Thank you, sir. And that concludes my report. Thank you very much. Yes. Congratulations to all involved in our finance department. True excellence. All right. That'll bring us to Planning Commission Business Public Hearing. Conditional Use Permit 11-21. Tyler Klein. Thank you, sir. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is a request for a conditional use permit or CUP to allow for the installation of a utility scale solar power generating facility. I would like to address the motion for the CUP and the CUP's request for a conditional use permit for the project area. This is a question about the ability on approximately 636 acres of RA zone property in the Bat Creek Manuscelum District. Directing your attention to the screen, the project area is outlined in blue for your orientation. Marlboro Road forms the northern property boundary. To the east, you have the CSX Railroad Corridor in the town of Stephen City. And to the south, the nearest road is Family Drive. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This project proposes to a total of 10,000 units of solar power. This project proposes to a total of 10,000 units of solar power. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. proposes to generate approximately 40 to 60 megawatts of photovoltaic or solar energy. Of that 636 acres encompassing the parcels, 430 of those acres are being utilized for the installation of solar panels, inverters, vehicle access paths, and other necessary equipment, security fencing, and landscaping. Power generated by this facility will be combined, converted, increased, and delivered to the adjoining first energy overhead transmission lines through a substation that was approved as part of a Phase I project. And staff would note that what is unique about this project is portions of the site are going to be maintained for agricultural use by the owners. It is a lease between the applicant and the owners. Many of you will recall the name Bartonsville Solar Facility. It is associated with a Phase I project that was approved by this board and supported by the Board of Directors of the City of Baltimore. It was approved in September of 2020. Staff would note that one of those parcels that was approved with that prior CUP, identified with PIN 74820, known as the Staples property, was previously slated in that application to be only an interconnection parcel. It is now part of this application as well, and they're proposing to use that parcel to locate solar arrays in addition to that interconnection and substation that was part of their Phase I project. And staff would note that all of the other elements of Phase I remain unchanged by this application, and your application is still in place. Your actions on Phase II do not impact the approval that was granted on Phase I for those other parcels. Again, for your orientation, Marlboro Road kind of actually bisects the Phase I and Phase II projects. Phase I is this area in orange that runs along Middle Road, south along Passage Road to the south. And then the Phase II project, which is the subject of this conditional use program application, is shown in this red and blue hatching here. Staff has highlighted that parcel that was noted as an interconnection parcel in Phase I that is actually now part of the Phase II project as well. Here in yellow, again, the Staples property, it immediately joins the town of Stephen City. This is the concept plan that the applicant has included with their application. Again, it will look familiar to you because they've included the Phase I project as part of this as well. But specifically that Phase II portion that's the subject of this application, again, for your orientation, Marlboro Road forms the northern part of the Phase II limits. Again, the CSX Rail corridor in Stephen City forms the eastern boundary. They are proposing one point of access to the site from Marlboro Road that will utilize Strode-McCowd Lane, which is an existing private lane across all these parcels that they'll serve as access to the solar arrays. The solar arrays are in this kind of orange hash area. And anywhere you see this kind of light green are areas that are being preserved on the site. For use for agriculture, noting the use of pasture land, orchards, and cropland. Staff would also highlight that anywhere you see green highlights are where the applicant is proposing an enhanced buffer. A combination of plantings, deciduous trees, evergreen trees, and shrubbery. And then anywhere we see the kind of bubbling is where they intend to utilize existing vegetation to the extent possible to screen the project from the adjoining properties. And again, this is the Phase I project area just for context. So the zoning ordinance specifies that in addition to a site plan, the applicant also needs to provide a decommissioning plan that provides provisions for the removal of all the equipment from the site in the event that it is no longer in operation. It specifies in that to enter into a written agreement and provide financial security with Frederick County for the life of the project. And that those estimated costs for the site are $1,000.00. And that those estimated costs for the site are $1,000.00. And that those estimated costs for the site are $1,000.00. And that those estimated costs for the site are $1,000.00. And that those estimated costs for the site are $1,000.00. And again, the cost of removing the equipment, the cost of restoring the land, be updated every five years to ensure that sufficient funds are in place to cover that decommissioning. The comprehensive plan also has a number of areas that pertain to solar. And specific to this area of the county, the plan envisions this to remain primarily rural in nature and that agricultural land be preserved for future generations. The preservation of the underlying land maintains the ability of these parcels to survive. The preservation of the underlying sandstone in an soundscape and a for the purpose that the inconsistent with retroactive Kerry to bedroom land use, whether these parcels be used for agriculture in the future. And as a you know, recently adopted smoking also provide some language specific to solar citing knowing that the use once in operation is PBR through the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality. This application is a state-level administrative process where they do extensive cultural environmental study of their application and one component of that which allows them to move forward with that PBR is this local jurisdictional approval. So if the conditional use permit were to be approved the applicant is able to continue to move forward with the state permitting process. One thing that has changed since the first Phase 1 application was reviewed and approved by the Board of Supervisors was the Code of Virginia was amended in 2021 and allows localities and solar developers to negotiate a solar facility siting agreement. This is an opportunity for the locality and for the solar developer to provide provisions for the mitigation of impacts of their project. Torch, the company behind the Bartonsville project, is proposing that within 30 days of operation the applicant would make a one-time payment to the Frederick County in the amount of $750,000 to be used by the county for critical infrastructure projects to improve the citizen quality of life, including but not limited to expanding educational opportunities, telehealth, economic development, and doing that through extensive investment in broadband deployment through the county or another program of the county's choosing. You can think of the siting agreements kind of as a profit, a voluntary contribution from the applicant to the county. The siting agreement is a responsible innovation as a charity, and has been of service to the problematic community. This is a ongoing, sustainable blot, which does not only Fasten and intensify its mental health costs, but also increase the chances of麼 of� เ� disappears from the The fabrication at all times number two that an and unique establishment of the use the site plan shall address the additional regulations for specific uses contained in part 204 of the zoning ordinance and be in general conformance with the phase 2 expansion area concept plan included with the application prepared by greenway engineering and dated october 26 2021. number three that person to the code of virginia the owner shall comply with exhibit d the expansion area decommissioning plan included with the cup application prepared by torch clean energy dated september 21 and shall update the expansion area decommissioning plan every five years number four that within 30 days of commercial operation the bartonsville energy facility 2 shall make a one-time payment to the county in the amount of 750 000 these conditions shall be memorialized in a solar siting agreement with fritter county attached to schedule c1 of these conditions person to the code of virginia section 15.2-23 16.6 number five that batteries for the purpose of mass storage of electricity that will eventually be transferred to the grid are prohibited as part of the cup number six that access to the site shall be limited to one entrance from marlboro road via strode mcleod lane and will be used for construction and general site access and the entrance configuration shall be in general conformance with the phase two expansion area concept plan included with the application prepared by greenway engineering and dated october 26 2021 the solar array panel construction materials will occur at the site entrance off marble road using scrooge mccall lane on sheet 3 of the concept plan and the solar array panel materials delivery lay down area shall be restricted to tax parcel 74-a-18 number seven that a phase one archaeological survey be completed and submitted to the department of planning and development prior to site plan approval the survey should document the collection of historic structures on and around this development and determine if the area would qualify as a rural historic district number eight that the pile driving of polls for solar arrays during construction shall be limited to 7 a.m to 5 p.m monday through friday and that all other construction activities be permitted 7 a.m to 7 p.m monday through friday and 7 a.m to 5 p.m on saturday no construction activities are permitted on sundays and finally number nine that any expansion or modification of this land use will require the approval of a new conditional use permit the planning commission held a report on the cost of land use the initial parkland project a public hearing on this application on October 20th, 2021 and recommended approval. Following the public hearing this evening, staff is seeking action by the Board of Supervisors on this proposed conditional use permit application and on the solar siting agreement that was included with your packet. Staff would note that the Board approval affirms that the proposed facility is in accordance with the county's comprehensive plan. I'm of course happy to answer any questions you have and Mr. Evan Wyatt representing the applicant is here this evening as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Any questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Mr. Klein, could you go back to the map, the overview map, and describe to us the residential areas that might be nearby? Unlike the phase one project, there actually is not too much residential in the vicinity of this project. There is residential the McDonald Farm is part of the southern property boundary and there are platted lots with some homes here to the west of the project site which actually adjoin the area noted on the concept plan that is proposed for crops. There is also a significant number of residences across Marlborough Road to the north of the project. So I note that from what I've understood so far that this is contained within the properties, well within the property owned that you're leasing and adjacent to the previous construction. There's not many residences nearby. I guess we'll hear from the public if there's concerns momentarily. I'd like to ask a different question. It's my second board meeting and this is the second solar array proposal that I'm facing so this is not directed or targeted at you but makes me wonder if this is going to continue and how long it's going to be before I'm living underneath solar panels. I guess there's a lot of movement on this because not just of technology advances but because of subsidies that are growing I believe federal subsidies and state subsidies. Are you able to tell us whether this would be profitable or how profitable it might be without state or federal subsidies? I'll let Greenway and the representatives from TORCH speak to the financial mechanics of their project in regards to the number of solar facilities that Frederick County has. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. It's a great question and a good question, uh, and a good question. It exactly needs one of those격 set up upon that this is what Mister Wilk has quietly foreseen. There are a finite number of sites that are applicable for solar because of the necessity to be near overhead transmission lines and substations. That's not to say it's infeasible but it certainly is more challenging the further you get away from those facilities. Yeah. My comment was a little bit unfair. It was meant to be humorous but nobody took it that way but it still is a concern. I guess we all pay taxes as citizens and it's far above this vote on those things that go that are collected by the state and the federal government and they're turned around into subsidies and projects like solar and the question is I guess I I wish I had a better sense of the net benefit to the county of accepting these projects I realize we're gonna pay the taxes regardless of whether we approve plans like this we just won't get the benefit of the tax money returning here to support the the use of the land by the company and by at the choice of the land over what he wants to do with his land it's just a larger question that I have and I'll be seeking more information on the absolute net effect to the county of approving more projects like this I do believe the applicant has some numbers about the tax revenue that the budget or be generated the machines and tools tax as far as their project is I'll let them speak to that as well all right thank you you the questions of mr. Klein anyone thank you sir mr. Wyatt anything you'd like to add mr. chairman members of the board I'm Evan why I was greenway engineering representing the request and does this work this way there we go so Tyler of course did a very great efforts to get the tax money back to the state of California I'm sure he was very good and thorough job of going through the mechanics and the requirements for the application, so I'm not going to be redundant. A couple things that I would like to add, though, to his presentation, and I think both of these might address maybe some of Super Lubbock's comments. The first question was specific to residential land use in and around the project. There are two property owners that were fairly directly impacted. Waveland Farm Parcel is right here, and the McDonald Farm Parcel is right there. The McDonald Farm, there is a cluster, there's a residence and a cluster of other buildings that are located about right here off of Family Drive, and Waveland has a residence that sits about 700 feet back from the adjoining property. Because of those impacts, the applicant actually met with both property owners, and one thing that I would note on the concept plan, that we did provide additional setbacks from those properties. They would be required to be 100 feet. We provided 200 feet, and then we also worked with the applicants on buffering that was enhanced in addition to the existing tree lines. As an example, through here, there's a triple row of evergreens that are located on the property line, and then we also worked with the applicants on buffering that are located on the property line, and they were required to be 100 feet. where there's more just agricultural farm field, there's still evergreen buffering through here. So we certainly considered that with impacts to residence, and we tried to adopt the concept plan to their comments and concerns. Another thing specific to the McDonald property, we also on our initial plan had an entrance proposed that accessed theторовome treasure and src land use and will be uphold it. And we also had an family drive, which was intended for emergency access only, they were concerned with that entrance because they weren't confident that it would be ultimately used for that intended purpose. So it has been removed also from the concept plan. So we certainly, you know, worked with the neighbors and listened to them and attempted to address those through the concept design. Um, as far as the revenues, um, when the county looks at the, the solar farms for the items that, uh, staff identify for comprehensive plan conformity, another objective of the county, of course, is to try to, uh, preserve agricultural land and provide incentives to the property owners. So their only incentive is not to have five acre lots and grow houses on the property. Um, so there is a value. To the county specifically for the cost avoidance of residential lots over the foreseeable decades that the projects would be in force. Uh, but in addition to that, as Tyler said, uh, the general assembly adopted requirements that allow for the counties to negotiate siting agreements. Uh, so in addition to the fact that the residential land use is not an opportunity, there's also a three quarter dollar million lump sum cash payment coming to the county, uh, within 30 days. Of the commercial operation of the facility. And then as Tyler also mentioned, uh, the county also is able to realize machinery and tools tax value for this. Uh, staff had provided a chart, uh, that gives numbers. This is going to be about a 50 megawatt facility, uh, that is intend or based on their numbers that's projected to generate $4 million in machinery and tools tax revenue over the initial 35 years of the project. Uh, there's also. Uh, real estate taxes that come into play. I'll be at there a smaller number. Uh, that's about $20,000 a year based on the current assessment of the seven properties. Um, so, um, there is revenues coming back to the county in those three sources. And obviously for a land use that really doesn't have any impacts to the county for, for school children, uh, for impacts to water, uh, and sewer and impacts to groundwater. Uh, and it's very much a benign land use, uh, that really only has visual impacts that you consider mitigation. Uh, I think really the county is, is getting a fair share from this, from this application. Um, so with that said, Mr. Chairman, uh, the only other thing when the planning commission recommended approval, uh, of the CUP, uh, they also recognize that it did conform to the comprehensive plan as part of their motion. Uh, so I'll be happy to answer any questions and, uh, we'll get from there. Thank you, sir. Mr. McArthur. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. White, thank you. A couple of questions. The $750,000, um, offer is certainly appreciated, but it's not to be paid until 30 days after phase, this phase is installed and goes operational. Do we have any idea when that may be? Because with inflation at the rate of seven to 11% per year, $750,000 may not be worth a whole lot to us five years from now. So just wondering what that timeline looks like. I'm going to have, uh, Sam Golan address that. Uh, they are in a process now, not only getting this entitlement, but also getting the approvals at the state level through the permit by rule requirements. And once those two items are in force, uh, there's a site plan, of course, that has to be approved and then construction. Uh, so I'll ask him to give you the timeline on that. You know, as far as the construction phasing, is it a phase one, phase two sort of linear project? Is that? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And he'll answer that whole sequence of construction. And then second question, and we discussed this earlier, is this is a leased project so that the landowner is not the contractor constructing this project, owning the project, operating the project. We've had other projects where the landowners have offered to give up TDRs or put conservation easements on the land in order to take those residential units out of supply. So when we're told that there are no impacts from school children, we're not going to be able to get into that. And if there are, if there are no impacts from school children, or that this is keeping land free of building, maybe, because if those TDRs are sold, that just shifts the burden from this land into the urban development area, which would then have impacts for school children and other services. You had indicated that there was no ability from the applicant in order to make something like that happen, similar, where TDRs were given up or some type of conservation easement was put on this property. Is that still the position of the applicant at this point? Yes, it is. And I think the discussion we had, you're referring, of course, to the Hollow Road application. And you may recall that the representative had advised the board that they were purchasing the property. And therefore, as people that are not in the business of agriculture, so to speak, they were just going to be property owners. They had the ability to control the land and to provide a conservation easement over the property and also offer the TDRs as part of their siting agreement. Of course, siting agreements come in different shapes, sizes, and forms. So that's how their model worked for that, but they did not provide any cash to the county. With this particular issue, it is a lease agreement. So the owners that have the land that are leasing to our clients, they desire to keep the property going in agricultural use. They do not desire conservation easements. Typically, most people that are in the business of agriculture, they do not desire conservation easements. We are not looking for a tax break, so to speak. So conservation easements really are not something they're pursuing. The TDRs are something, I think, at this point in time that the way they're looking at it is with the property being tied up for at least 35 to 40 years, they do not want to leverage anything at that point in time with TDRs, which may or may not happen. But what the county does know is that for the ensuing several decades, certainly won't be in play. Other questions Mr. Wyatt anyone? Supervisor Dunn. When the applicant had conversations with adjacent landowners was there any concern on noise and pile driving beginning at 7 and the reason I'm asking the question is there have been situations where people have been medically sick and 7 o'clock is early when you've been up all night. On the other hand if there's been no issues so how has that issue been addressed or not? And when Sam comes up and talks about the construction sequence he'll field that question as well. Thank you. Other questions of Mr. Wyatt anyone? Thank you sir. Thank you. Gentlemen? Good evening Chairman, members of the board. My name is Sam Galland I'm a development manager with Torch Clean Energy. Just wanted to address a few of the questions. The first one is about the construction of the construction of the construction of the building and then I think we'll go on to the second one. So the first one I believe is on construction timing. So first I'd say on the on the siting agreement that payment is due 30 days after any commercial operation so that would include phase one. On this project we are planning to get both phases up and running by the end of next year so the end of 2023. On phase two which we're almost all of the work required for the state permit. So the goal is to kind of move into construction on Phase 2 almost at the same time, and that's what we intend to do. The question about the subsidies, I would say that there is not a state subsidy for solar. At this scale, there are some subsidies for residential or smaller scale. There is a federal subsidy that is in the process of being phased out. I would say there's an investment bank called Lazard that does a cost of energy analysis, and they do it every year. They've been doing it when it looked really bad for renewables, in fact. And if you look at the cost of energy for solar, it's actually coming in without any subsidies It's actually coming in below the cost of coal and natural gas. We're doing a similar project in West Virginia. There's no state subsidies there. There's no big push for renewables. And it's the same arrangement where we would own the plant and sell the power. And that's exciting to us because solar is bringing a lot of economic value that you can come in under the cost of wholesale energy. And not have the risk of fuel that natural gas or coal would have. The question on the noise, we did not get that specific question from the neighbors on this phase. We did offer to notify neighbors and landowners on phase one about pile driving. We could certainly do that here. But we did not get those specific questions. It was more about setbacks and screening. To answer your question, Supervisor Ludwig? Yes, it does. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Supervisor Graver. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sam, you and I have met with some landowners out there. And I appreciate what you've done to try to mitigate the concerns of some of those landowners. And there are truly very few properties, as far as landowners are concerned, that are not residential properties around this particular site. What I do have a question on, would you be willing to give the same consideration to these property owners as you did in phase one, where you stated that you would give them a two-week notification prior to pile driving? And would you also be willing to delay the start time from 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. for the pile driving operations? Yes, we can do that. Excellent. And that's all I have. Thank you. You guys are done. Mr. Graver, in answer to one of the questions, the only other addition I'd add to that is, on your pile driving, do you intend to do it on holidays, federal holidays? We don't intend to do it on holidays. Okay. Thank you. Other questions? Anyone? Thank you, gentlemen. This is a public hearing. I'm in the car. I own that ground and site there. Yes, sir. You all have been bought. I'll make a small call. Okay. I think I talked to Sam the other day about holding pawns there next to me. Can I ask you to make your comments during the public comment portion? Okay. We're getting ready to go there. Okay. Yes, sir. Thank you. It's a procedural issue. All right. Anyone else? Is this a public hearing? Did anyone sign up? Mr. Bolhoffer? No one signed up. No one signed up. There's still a public hearing. Sir, if you would come forward and share your name. I'm here. Nope, not there. I don't really have anything to say. Well, and that's okay, too. It's your opportunity if you'd like it. I don't know. Hey, McDonald. I've got the... Yeah. I've got the... Farm to the south. We keep talking about it here. That would be back creek, correct? Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Go ahead. Sam did work with me on the buffers there, and I appreciate that. But they're on your map there. Great. It'll be east of that little waffly-looking thing there. We have two houses. That's where we live right there, between the railroad and that tree line there. We've got two houses there. We live like 20 feet from the property line, so we're really close. And they did agree to set it back a little further there for us. But I was concerned. We talked about settlement ponds there. I've got a pond of my own where the cows would be south of that green there at the railroad. And that's going to rain right in my pond there for the cattle if they don't put any settlement ponds in. So I just wanted to set up a pond there. And it's about halfway back. There's a low place where it's going to drain over on me back. And that's all I wanted to bring up, settlement ponds for the runoff. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. McNall. And I'm not crazy about pile driving either. Understood. Is there anyone else who wanted to speak to this question? Anyone? Anyone? Welcome, Ms. Kearns. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and Board of Supervisors. My name is Diane Kearns. I'm a resident of Gainsborough. And I am the active manager of this piece of property. A few years ago, I would have said I was an owner of it. But after some estate planning, that's not the case. But I am managing all of the orchards that are on there, which is the long, skinny pieces sort of in the middle there. And we have taken a lot of that orchard on that piece of property out, simply because the processing apple business, which my family has been in, for 50 years, has been a big part of that. And I'm a resident of Gainsborough. The organization that's been working with Gainsborough for five generations isn't doing it anymore. It's definitely going downhill profitability-wise. But we would like to remain in the orcharding business. And so this decision did not come to us lightly. From our family's point of view, we look at it as sort of, number one, it's a way of, like, because it is a lease, the revenue that will come from this makes you more comfortable in continuing to manage an orchard on other pieces of property. property. This piece of property is significant hunk, but it represents maybe 10% of my family's total holdings in Frederick County. The other thing that we definitely considered is that we did not want to sell the property. We would very much, like my sister owns it now, she would like to have it available for her children and the next generation. And so that is why we have done this. To the question about TDRs or, you know, any kind of conservation easements, no, we have no intent of doing that because the hope is that down the road, after the 30 years or so, because everything will be taken off, it will be available for whatever the thing is next. Because what we intend to do in our operation is to look for other profit centers, but it does take a while to swing the ship. So, you know, looking at cider apples or organics or developing different markets for the product that you already have will take a while. So that's sort of our family's point of view. From my personal point of view, on the environmental front, which I feel very strongly about, I have a lot of experience in the environment. I have a lot of experience in the environment. I actually think that what the solar facility will have less of an impact than we do in the orchard business because we do have to apply agricultural chemicals and they will be doing none of that. So that's, in a way, it's a positive thing. From the county's point of view, I agree with Mr. White completely that there is a bit of cost avoidance because with the five acre by right thing in the RA zone, yes, you know, that does cost the county a significant amount of money. But the other thing I feel very strongly is that down the road, Frederick County needs to make sure that there is open space available in 20 or 30 years. It's really difficult. You can't stop somebody from developing their property, particularly when, you know, they have the opportunity to make a lot of money. So by doing this, I feel like what it does is it does at least say in 30 years, this property will be available for the next thing, whatever that is. And it's proximity to Stephen City and some more, so the already developed areas, I think, makes it even a stronger point of view from the county of preserving something there. But time's up. But anyway, thank you very much and happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, ma'am. If we could have your name and magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. Yes, thank you. This is my first time at a board meeting. So my name is Cindy Burning. I'm a neighbor. I live on Carleton. I'm a member of the Carters Lane, just a couple hundred yards from the proposed site. And my husband and I, just one and several of our other neighbors who have spoken about this, want to express our support of the project. We find it very exciting. The buffer, we've studied the plans, the buffers. None of us would have any impact on our views. We moved to this area, my husband and I moved specifically to this area because of the agricultural views and the landscape. And it would be a shame if it all converted to large subdivisions with big houses. So we just wanted to express that support and hope this goes through. Thank you very much. And you're in the Back Creek district? Yes. Thank you, ma'am. Anyone else? Seeing none, how would the board like to handle this Back Creek? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one question for the applicant, if I may. I'm hearing some of the comments. Sam, if I could get you to come up. Thank you. I've heard this comment before, and I believe that we have spoken on it, but I just wanted to hear it from you again to make sure that it was you and I that had spoken on it. Would the water be contained to this property? So any runoff or any of the potential runoff or affecting of the neighbors, you would have water containment? Is that what I understood as you did this development? That's correct. And that would be controlled by the applicant? Yes. And that would be controlled by you or be overseen by the Department of Environmental Quality? Or who would kind of, would there be oversight to that? So the oversight for the construction, erosion, and sediment control, that's overseen by Frederick County. I think for the stormwater, some counties do that at the state level. Mr. Graber, yeah, the Frederick County Department of Public Works, they will be reviewing the site plan and anything stormwater related. Not only quantity. Quality measures will be in place. So what leaves the site is the same condition as it is today. I guess my larger question was, is does it affect the neighbors? Will it affect the neighbors? No, this is post-development conditions cannot exceed pre-development, which is how it is today. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So in light of this, I was with Sam and others when they went to speak with some of the adjoining landowners. I believe that they've done a good job at trying to mitigate the impact. I believe that they've done a good job at trying to mitigate the impacts of this. While I'm not a big fan of solar facilities in general, I do believe that this is a good location for one if there's going to be one put in, just based upon the neighbors or lack thereof that are around the facility. Therefore, I'd like to make a motion that we approve Conditional Use Permit 11-21 for the Bartonsville Energy Facility Phase 2, and that I do believe that it is in general accordance with the county comprehensive plan. And the siting agreement as well? I would like to include in the motion that we accept the siting agreement as proposed. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, just for a point of clarification, earlier Mr. Graber had requested the applicant about the two-week notice prior to construction and the adjustment to the start time from 7 to 8 a.m. I just wanted to make sure that if he wanted to include that in his motion or as a condition that that got captured for the record. I will make that as a condition. So I will make a condition. I will make a condition of accepting this that we move the start time to 8 a.m. and that the neighbors get a two-week prior notification prior to pile driving beginning. I think that covers the issues. You've heard the motion. Is there a second? I'll second it. And a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor McArthur. Question for the county attorney. With regard to the payment of the $750,000, is it clear in the CUP paperwork that that's... that would be triggered by the beginning of Phase 1 as well as Phase 2? Supervisor McArthur, yes, because it's simply... Well, actually, let me go back and look because... Because I'd hate to see a... Remembering that the... No, I understand your point because remembering that the citing agreement is about Phase 2... Right. So I'd just hate to see a... So... So... So we can't prove Phase 2 with this as an incentive and maybe never get to that phase? Do we... Do we have a copy of that here in the... And if it's... If not... If not... And if not, would it be necessary to have an amendment to the motion in order to clarify that? Thank you. No. Oh. Let me suggest that the amendment to the motion is probably the best idea. And assuming the applicant is agreeable to it. It's not. I just got to it. Okay. Okay. The agreement... The agreement defines the project to include all of the original parcels. Mr. Wyatt has brought me that, pointed that out. It defines project on certain parcels, all of the original parcels and the new parcels, and then says it's $750,000 upon commencement of electric power generated by the project. So we're good. So you feel confident then? Thank you, sir. Thank you all. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graver? I'm sorry. I was going to make a comment. Go ahead. I was going to say this is an interesting one because it's, I think, the first one where we haven't had a lot of vociferous opposition. This is one where we actually had people saying, I want this in my backyard, which that's first. So, you know, I came in ready to vote against this, but, you know, this... The land... My basic philosophy is that a landowner should be able to do as much with their land as they'd like to do with their land without impacting the project. And in this case, the neighbors... An actual neighbor says, please put this in my backyard. So that was refreshing to hear. So I'm second-guessing my original opposition to this based on that. Thank you. Any other comments? Mr. Chairman? It's rather done. Based upon Mr. McCarthy's comments, and I don't know how the rest of you are thinking, but a year and a half ago, we had another farmer here who took a portion of his land, 10% or so, so that provided economics to keep the rest of his land going, the Brombeck family. Okay. And I think the Kerns family, the Shoemaker family are doing the same thing. So I think it's a plus for what they're doing. To Mr. Ludwig's comment earlier, when this is the second meeting and second item, I'm going to address this issue, and you can join me at our February 4th joint meeting on what's appropriate, where, et cetera. But in this case, you have a landowner that's putting out 10% or so of the land they own to provide an economic incentive to keep the rest of that farm operation going. Their family has a good reputation. So I would encourage support for this. Thank you. Anyone else? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. All right. That will bring us to 12B, revisions of code sections. Mr. Chairman, can I make a comment on, let's see, I forget the phrase for it. Okay. I think we're going to have to do a little bit of a review on our procedure. Did we have a second for that motion, or did we need one? We did. It was Supervisor Dunn. I did not hear that. Okay. Thank you. Sorry. Yes, sir. Thank you. Good evening. Mr. Klein. Yes, sir. This is a proposal to amend Chapter 144, the subdivision ordinance, and Chapter 165, the zoning ordinance, to clarify, amend, and remove requirements contained in the following sections, general provisions, supplementary use regulations, regulations for specific use, and the following sections, the design standards. There's a number of amendments, and I'll walk through each amendment, the proposal, and a little bit of detail about why that change is being made. The first item pertains to our steep slopes contained in both our subdivision ordinance and our zoning ordinance. This is a proposed revision to amend the definition for steep slopes from 15 percent and 50 percent, respectively, to a consistent standard of 35 percent. Both chapters, the subdivision ordinance, and the zoning ordinance, are not in line with the definition of steep slopes. The definition of steep slopes is that the steep slopes are not consistent with the definition of players on the football field, which are considered homepage fields, or zones, and the components of the О放 4-19$ countless Take the following captions care to adapt your transition requirements as required, or the following use recommendations which need a Magnistic éléments therefore useful. Perfect等一下. Ms. Stein. That's what we've been doing this whole time. regulations contained in part 204 and this is a revision to remove the provisions for festival permits many of you on the board will remember that the board actually removed chapter 86 of the frederick county code the section on festival permits from the code in 2021 and this amendment would eliminate the festival permit requirement and the limitation on 100 persons for events held at farm wineries breweries and distilleries this amendment is a simple cleanup item to ensure the consistency of the sub or sorry the zoning ordinance with other sections of the county code the next item for consideration this evening pertains to our inoperable motor vehicles and this is a change to part 101 the general provisions in part 204 supplementary use regulations and this is a revision to prohibit the unscreened storage of inoperable trailers and when we talk about trailers we're referring to tractor truck trailers camping trailers semi trailers and the like currently our zoning ordinance prohibits unscreened outdoor storage of inoperable motor vehicles passenger vehicles trucks but we does not include any provisions for the regulation of trailers and what we have found through our zoning enforcement program is a number of inoperable trailers that are sitting out there and causing an eyesore and they've come to the attention of county staff but under our current definition and regulations we're not able to do anything about them so this amendment would seek to regulate trailers in the same manner that we regulate other inoperable trailers and we're not able to do anything about them and staff would note and clarify that it would not affect any farm use tagged trailers like we don't pursue farm use tagged vehicles as inoperable motor vehicles the next item for your consideration it pertains to pedestrian access and this is in part 203 the motor vehicle section of the zoning ordinance and this would amend the section for pedestrian walkways and trails to ensure those pedestrian accommodations are provided to implement comprehensive plan policy The zoning ordinance currently requires sidewalks only when they are planned and included as part of a corridor walkway plan. And that's not something that we have in our comprehensive plan. What we do have in our comprehensive plan that pertains to sidewalks is the future road classifications. And depending on the type of classification, certain additional facilities, pedestrian facilities are included there. So this is an opportunity to ensure that consistency. Staff would note that the changes proposed to the pedestrian access section of the zoning ordinance mirror the language that's included in our subdivision ordinance. So again, this is another one of those items where we're trying to ensure consistency between the subdivision and our zoning ordinance. And finally, the last change is to our street design section, which is contained in the design standards of the subdivision ordinance. And this would modify the requirements for minimum right-of-way for each road classification. Those are going to be your local streets, your miles. Those are going to be your minor collectors, major collectors, and arterial roadways. To ensure that the design of the roadway fulfills the future road classifications is specified in our comprehensive plan and meets all the current criteria required by the Virginia Department of Transportation. Presently, we only specify a minimum right-of-way along with a number of other requirements as it pertains to vehicle trips, which we have found to be insufficient for planned future conditions in the comprehensive plan and also conflicting with VDOT standards. So again, this is ensuring a consistent standard. That aligns with current comprehensive plan policy and current VDOT standards. Staff would note that the section, the amendments of the street design section have been reviewed not only by the assistant director for transportation, but also by VDOT staff to ensure that they are comfortable with the language that we are requiring in our subdivision ordinance. So the planning commission held a public hearing on these ordinance amendments on January 5th, 2022, and they recommended approval. This item is presented to you all as a public hearing item. And following a public hearing, the staff is seeking action by the Board of Supervisors on these proposed ordinance amendments. And I know it's a lot of information, but I'm happy to answer any questions specifically to any of these items if you have them. Thank you. Mr. McCarthy. Mr. Klein, with regard to the trailer amendment, the Department of Motor Vehicles requirements for farm use, whether registered or unregistered, unregistered, my understanding is that the vehicle must still be, what is it? Give me one. It doesn't have to be, you don't have to have a tag, but it still has to be titled. How would that go? How would that sort of interplay with a farm trailer that doesn't have a title per se, no VIN number, no title? How do we sort of make this work? And that may be a better question for the county attorney. Thank you. Well, one thing I would note is we're not, we're not going to have the means for any vehicle of determining title status. I think an important distinction on this, though, is as it is now for inoperables, we have a different standard in the RA district than we do in the other districts. In the RA district, it just has to be screened, whereas in the other districts, it can't be there at all. So if it's true farm use, presumably, it's only going to be screened. It's only going to be screened. It's only going to be screened. It's only going to be in the RA district. There really shouldn't be a reason for a farm use trailer to be in, say, you know, an RP driveway. But that's really about as much of a distinction as we're going to be able to make. Would this ordinance only apply then in the RP? No, it applies in all the districts, but applies differently. The standard for inoperable vehicles is it has to be screened in the RA, whereas in the other districts, they're just not allowed. Screened or not. The only reason I ask is I do know, for instance, that there are farm use trailers that are used for agricultural purposes that are neither licensed nor tagged. And the way the ordinance is written, it says that it would be determined based on those farm use standards, which if the farm use standard from the DMV under state law is that it has to be at least licensed, then do we have a conflict within our own ordinance as to that provision? Well, I think we're not going to go looking for, you know, a farm on a farm. I understand what we would do, but as a lawyer, I'm always trying to find a way to actually make the law conform to what the purpose and the practice would be. Right. Is there a way to word it in such a way that we could ensure that the ordinance actually does? We'd have to take it back and look at it. Okay. Thank you. Others? Questions? Anyone? Thank you, Mr. Klein. It's a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? Mr. Bolhoff? Mr. Chairman, I'm going to sign up. Thank you, sir. Would anyone like to speak to these adjustments in the zoning ordinance? Anyone? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing portion. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I know we had some conversations. I think Doug was in with another engineer, and we had some things we were talking about where we were going to come back and repurpose, if you will. And I would make that same suggestion. I think you've got a great suggestion where we pass this but come back to this and straighten that out, if that's okay with you. I was going to suggest a motion that we go ahead and adopt everything except for that one section, and we come back at the next meeting or following meeting for that particular section. Whatever. Well, following meeting. The following meeting might be way too quick for staff. Whenever the county attorney and staff is ready, I think that would be. Two meetings. So I'll go ahead and make a motion. I'm with fingers, I thought. I'll go ahead and make a motion then that we adopt the proposed ordinance amendments with the exception of the trailer amendment, which should be taken up at a meeting at the end of February. Second. And a second. Can I offer an amendment? Sure. To your motion? We had a discussion earlier on steep slopes. And there's one very odd little piece in there that gives the zoning administrator the authority to grant a waiver from the code. And what I would offer in this amendment is that I would move that staff relook at that wording to make sure that it meets the intent. At some point in the future, bring it back to us. We're always and we're working actively on these kinds of changes and updates because it's been a while. I'll second that. And a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would just make mention. I had the same concerns about the steep slope comments that you had. And I think that that does need to be addressed rather rapidly as well. So thank you for making that. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Question. It hadn't occurred to me before. On the inoperable motor vehicles. Ordinance. So say somebody wanted to get a classic vehicle, an antique vehicle and restore it. They don't live in, of course, in homeowners association, which forbids it. But they're not in a rural area either. Does this prohibit them from. Not in what? A vehicle that will take some time to restore. To be licensable and operable. Does this interfere with someone being able to do that? It depends on what district they're in and where they store their vehicle. In the in the RP, they would need to store their vehicle during restoration indoors. Mr. Chairman, I would just point out that this particular amendment doesn't change our ordinance as it pertains to a vehicle that has an engine and a drivetrain. This is just for trailers specifically. So it wouldn't this particular amendment wouldn't change the current current ordinance at all with regard to like a classic car or something like that. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, just one one point of information. Thank you, sir. For and I know it doesn't meet the standard of Mr McCarthy's perspective on the law, but know that our zoning inspectors do exercise a fair amount of discretion. Um, that specific instance that you mentioned as well as. Cars that are designed for racing that are not ever intended to be on normal roadways are two examples where they do exercise discretion when they're out inspecting properties to that effect. So thank you. Thank you. Yes, sir. And to your point, I would just like to say that my intention with the county attorney was not to reflect negatively upon county staff. I appreciate your judiciousness and how the entire county staff applies these ordinances. But as a purist in the law, I like to have things that actually mean what they say. Okay. Anyone else? So this is the amended motion or the amendment. Supervisor Graber. I. Supervisor Dunn. I. Supervisor McCarthy. I. Supervisor Wells. I. Supervisor slaughter. I. Supervisor Ludwig. I. Chair votes I. The motion carries. So now we will vote on the amended motion. Supervisor Ludwig. I. Supervisor Slaughter. I. Supervisor Wells. I. Supervisor McCarthy. I. Supervisor Dunn. I. Supervisor Graber. I. Chair votes I and the motion carries. Anything else? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That'll bring us to where liaison reports are. Mr. Chairman. Yes. As the liaison to the Economic Development Authority, I just want to remind their citizens that next week is Frederick County's first restaurant week, beginning on January 31st until February 6th. You can go to the website fredcoeats.com for more information. The menus are posted on the website. The menu is posted there and certainly an opportunity for us to support the restaurants to showcase, celebrate, and support and elevate our favorite community hangouts, creative chefs and restaurant families. So just as a reminder. Congratulations EDA. Exciting stuff. Anyone else? Liaison reports? We've only had one series of committee meetings so far this year. Citizen comments on any issue that they need to address? No. Okay. Any other questions that they'd like to bring to the attention of the board? Did anyone sign up? Yes, Mr. Chairman. Bob Clark. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Name, Magisterial District, and try to limit your comments to three minutes. Yes. Please. Bob Clark, Opecan District. Again, I'm here representing the 302 Smart Development Coalition. I just want to reiterate our positions just for some clarity, keep it in the limelight here. We have two positions. One is we are against the annexation of land from a biotech company. We want to keep our property in the thread of a federal rule. We will be removing the land by Middletown for several reasons. One, primarily, it removes, we will suffer the operational impacts of whatever goes on that property without actually having any standing to approach this board with what's going on in our backyard. So we really want to keep Frederick County in Frederick County. The second one is not so much with this board, but more of a public awareness and our struggle and fight to contain the Sheetz development. And I just want to make you aware of what we've been doing. I'm not sure if I've shown you this. I know I've talked about it, but we put out a flyer to approximately 10,000 homes in Altoona, Pennsylvania. This flyer directs people to an open letter to the citizens of Pennsylvania recognizing their contributions in the Battle of Cedar Creek as well. There were approximately, I think, about 18 of their divisions here fighting at the time. As well. So we're leveraging that as well. That has sort of grown into a very large media focus on Frederick County. And I'm just going to go down this on Dodge. January 18th, we had an article in the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. On January 18th, Penn Live out of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania carried us. January 19th, WTAG-TV in Altoona did a report on us on the situation. January 22nd, WDVM-DCW-TV out of Hagerstown came to Middletown and did a report. And we also made the front page of the Patriot News out of Harrisburg. And we're looking at doing some other media campaign stuff in Pennsylvania and across the country. We have had an overwhelming response from the citizens of Pennsylvania supporting us and including one as far away as Indiana, which was a surprise, but a welcome surprise. But I just wanted to make the board aware that we understand these are two distinct arguments. We know where you can help us, and that's with the annexation. And we know where we have to step up to protect our lands here in Frederick County. And I think just in short and closing, I just want to say I'm impressed with the efforts of the people of Frederick County to really want to preserve where they live. No matter what happens with the land, ultimately, we are taking a vested interest. We are taking a vested interest in that land, and we like it here. And I think it says something about the people, your constituents. So I want to thank you. Thank you, sir. You bet. Yes, ma'am. Good evening. I didn't sign up. I didn't know that I would have the opportunity. Okay. Name, Magisterial District, and proceed, please. Priscilla Riddell-Bolito, and I am part of the Stonewall Magisterial District. I'd first just like to express my sincere, heartfelt thanks to Mr. Graber, Mr. McCarthy, and Mr. Ludwig for their comments at the beginning of the meeting regarding what's taking place in Frederick County schools right now. I would like to also add, in two days that the kids have been in school, I think that it's absolutely important that we have a lot of support for the children. It's important to inform you all what you're funding. In two days, these children have been locked in a library at a specific school, locked doors from the inside and the outside because they refused to wear a mask. Elementary fifth grade students have been bribed by the principal to put a mask on, bribed with a special lunch and games. Instagram accounts have now been made, threatening, bullying, intimidation of any unmasked high school child at Millbrook High School. This is a dangerous precedent that our Board of Education has set for these children. That's what our taxpayer dollars are funding right now. I understand that it will make its way to the Virginia Supreme Court, at some point in time. I hope it's this week. But it may not be. It may be six more months. My child was denied an education of any shape or form yesterday. He's at home. FCPS will not accept him. But he's not the only one. Social workers are contacting parents, threatening them with truancy. This is what our taxpayer dollars are paying for. We are allowing this Board of Education to do these things to our children. It is abuse. Absolute positive abuse. If I were doing the same things to my child, I would expect Child Protection Services to be at my doorstep. As a taxpayer. I would expect them to be at my doorstep. As a taxpaying citizen of Frederick County, I do not support in any way, shape, or form, these children being segregated. And that's what we have. That's what we have, people. We have segregation. In 1957, the 101st Airborne Division escorted African American students into their classrooms safely. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? No one. We'll close the public comment portion. Board comments? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've seen a lot of photos, and I've gotten a lot of phone calls, and received a few emails from parents expressing the same concerns as we've seen expressed to us this evening. If the pictures are accurate, it truly does appear that we have segregation and or two classes of individuals in our school system. And that is wrong. I stand beside what I stated at the beginning of the portion of the meeting, wherein I expect our state Supreme Court to make a ruling over the next two weeks. I fully expect to see that occur. And I also fully expect our Board of Education, our Frederick County School Board, to follow that guidance or ruling by the state Supreme Court. Should they choose not to do so, I believe that we need to reiterate our only recourse that we have, which is to withhold funding or allow funding to go to other areas where a child might be educated, whether that be charter schools or other schools in the process where we can contribute money. But there has to be some recourse to make sure that those students have the opportunity to learn, just like every other student does within Frederick County. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Two comments. One on the schools. It would take a state law basically to change, but if the tax dollars followed the child, you'd have competition and a lot of these issues would be resolved. So just recognize that that's one. And then number two, last week, John Jones, who is the former chief for Stephen City Fire and Rescue, passed away. And he has done a great job in Stephen City. He's responsible for working well. And I think the Board just has to accept that. And I think the Board should express their condolences to his family for that loss. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Absolutely agree. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Ledward. Yes, I agree with Mr. Graber's comments. Also, I know that some actions that we might consider taking would require changes in state law, but I believe from what I've determined so far that some actions do not. I believe we have the purview to fund or support the education and operation of schools outside the public schools as an alternative for students who feel that their needs and parents who feel that their needs are not being met and that have lost confidence in the public schools. If that occurs here in this county, then we owe it to those parents to provide them with an alternative. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two years ago, almost to today, I read a quote from C.S. Lewis regarding the pandemic. I think, yes, we have an emergent issue in our schools, but this is a much larger issue nationwide with regard to our culture and our society in general. And I just want to read that quote once again. In one way, we think a great deal too much. And I'm going to substitute his words. It was about the atomic bomb for the pandemic. In one way, we think a great deal too much of the pandemic. How are we to live? How are we to live in a pandemic age? I am tempted to reply why, as you would have lived in the 16th century when the plague visited London almost every year, or as you would have lived like a Viking in the age when the raiders from Scandinavia might land and cut your throat any night, or indeed, as you are already living in an age of cancer, an age of syphilis, an age of paralysis, an age of air raids, an age of war, an age of railway accidents, an age of motor car accidents. In other words, do not let us begin by exaggerating the novelty of our situation. Believe me, dear sir or madam, you and all whom you love were already sentenced to death before the pandemic was invented. And I mean invented. And quite a high percentage of us were going to die in unpleasant ways. We had indeed one very great advantage over our ancestors, anesthetics. But we have that still. It is perfectly ridiculous to go about whimpering and drawing long faces because the scientists have added just one more chance of a painful and premature death to a world which already bristled with such chances and in which death itself was not a chance at all, but a certainty. This is the first point to be made, and the first action to be taken to pull ourselves together. If we are all going to be destroyed by a pandemic, let that pandemic, when it comes, find us doing sensible and human things. Praying, working, teaching, reading, listening to music, bathing our children, playing tennis, chatting to our friends over a pint of beer and a game of darts, not huddled together like frightened sheep thinking of a disease. They may break our bodies, a microbe can do that, but they need not dominate our minds. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Vice Chairman McCarthy. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. I move to adjourn. A second? Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. We thank you all for your attendance, your participation. Have a great evening.
