Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2022-01-05
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=115
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. First item tonight is the adoption of the agenda. There's no changes to the agenda. The agenda has been presented. I'll ask for a motion. So moved. Do I have a second? Second. I have a second. All those in favor of adopting the agenda, say aye. Aye. We're adopted. The next item is the election of officers. And for that, I'm going to call on Mr. Wyatt Pearson, our planning director. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the commission. Just to start your new year off, a couple of housekeeping items, including the election of officers. Your chairman and vice chairman will walk through for you, and then the secretary, and then the adoption of your bylaws, roles and responsibilities, and meeting schedule. And so I'll begin by opening the nominations for the position of chairman. I nominate John Jewell. Second. Any other nominations for the position? We close nominations. Second. Okay. All those in favor of John Jewell for chairman, say aye. Aye. Aye. All those opposed, no. Thank you all. Congratulations, Mr. Jewell. Any nominations for position of vice chairman? Mr. Triplett. Yes. I nominate Mr. Thomas, vice chairman. Any other nominations? We close. Second. All those in favor of Mr. Thomas for vice chairman, say aye. Aye. All those opposed, no. Thank you all. Good. This time I want to turn it over to the new chairman, Mr. Jewell. Mr. Jewell. Nomination for secretary. I'm asking for a nomination. Nominate Mr. Thomas. Mr. Thomas. Mr. Thomas. Mr. Pearson. Second. Any other nominations? Move nominations. We close. Second. Congratulations, Mr. Pearson. You're now secretary. Motion to approve next item. Motion to approve the following. Adoption of meeting schedule, first and third Wednesdays of the month. Adoption of bylaws, roles, and responsibilities. And committee assignments. Adoption of committee해주 missiles will beً Judgment committeeäs in theup idols of students out there, whose purposesw� funeo DAF in terms of fy Next item is committee reports. We will start with Winchester Planning Liaison. Mr. Pfeiffer. So we had three items we discussed. One was the wind scubios. It was rezoning. We're not rezoning. We're rezoning a UV overlay. It's not the issue that rezoning some land, it's about 10 acres, raising parcels, seeing if one, if one, higher density use, and also a session, a resolution, a significant excitement for solar panels, for solar energy. Pfeiffer. Transportation. Yes, we met two days after Christmas, and when I had one item, that was to go over, the roads for the CIP. They were discussed, approved, and moved on to comp plan. How about the Northeast Commission? Northeast Land Use Plan Subcommittee. I volunteered to chair that. We had three meetings in December. We went over the roads, how they were decided, what needs to be improved. We've gone over power availability up there from Chando Electric. The gas company came in and gave a good talk. EDA has had a chance to discuss things with the committee. Our very first meeting, I kind of went through what a land use plan is and how we proceed and come up with it because all the subcommittee members, this is the first time they've served on anything for the county. So they're learning, but they're doing a good job. And tomorrow will be our next meeting at nine o'clock. We'll be meeting every Thursday morning, of January 9th, and we're going to start working on the actual land use plan of the plan starting tomorrow. Hopefully by the end of January, we'll have something ready to go to the citizens to review. And then it'll be ready for public hearing and we'll be coming off this commission then. So we want to keep it going for a while then. It'll be done in February. Thank you very much for the report. Are there any other committee reports? I know Conservation Eastman, or Historical? No. Good. Okay. All right. The next item is citizen comments. Any citizen that would like to come forward and speak to us on anything that is not a public hearing item or on our agenda tonight, please come forward. State your name and Magisterial. Thank you Magisterial. Okay. Yes. Let the nerves get out. Congratulations, by the way. Thank you. Absolutely. So my name is Bob Clark. I live in the Opequan Magisterial District. And a new year is upon us. And so as a revitalization of our exit 302 Smart Development Coalition groups fight to protect the lands of Frederick County. As you know, there's 20 acres on the south end of Opequan District that I brought up before I've spoken to the board about. That 20 acres is culturally important. And historically significant to the Frederick County, to our lives here in Frederick County. It's the last vestige of any battlefield that exists on the east side of 81, comparative with the hundreds of acres that are on the west side. That was occupied by the Confederate right flank and the Union left flank. It included people from Pennsylvania as well. As we know, the Sheets Corporation is looking at that property to move upon that property. I have viewed, through public request, I have viewed the concept plan. I know it's a preliminary concept plan. But it is completely unacceptable and not in, it just doesn't fit. I don't know where it would fit. But it certainly doesn't fit off of exit 302. It's a massive truck stop. Now that's, again, it's a conceptual preliminary plan. But they're looking at approximately, and I'm not going to go into too much detail on that, but they're looking at approximately, and I'm going to try to estimate this, about nine pumps, which would give them about, I think, 18 pumping stations for diesel and almost 50 parking spots for trucks and 40-some for cars. It's eating up a huge, huge chunk of battlefield. I get it. It's B-2. They can do what they want with it. They can build a mall. But we are going to face off and try and to address this as best as we can to help protect and preserve it. It's not that we're against it. It's just that, you know, there needs to be some balance. And I think the massive amount of land that they're going to chew up on that last 20 acres that's on the east side, separated by a state highway, it's not part of Middletown, would be, it's gone, it's gone. It won't exist anymore. It's different. Again, the west side has hundreds of acres. And you see they're eating that up for housing. Frederick County has 20 more acres of battlefield in it. It could be protected. I know it's going to take a while. It's going to take some action. It takes some public opinion to do it. But just hope that this committee and the board will help support us in whatever actions we can take to help shrink that footprint a little bit and work with Sheetz or whoever comes in there to develop a well-balanced culturally and historically significant development there that will recognize that. Thank you. Oh, I'm just going to add one more thing. 1996, U.S. Congress, designated eight counties in the Shenandoah Valley as historic district. Frederick County is one of them. That 20 acres is considered core battlefield by the national parks. So that is a significant piece of property. Core battlefield is considered, quote, unquote, hallowed ground and is where the most significant fighting took place. Thank you. Comments? Any additional, any other citizens? I've seen no one else. I closed the citizen comments portion. Next item is public hearing ordinance amendment. Mr. Klein. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. It's nice to see you in the new year again. This is a proposal to revise Chapter 144, our subdivision of land, and Chapter 165, our zoning ordinance, to clarify, amend, and remove requirements contained in the following sections. General provisions, supplementary use regulations, regulations for specific uses and design standards. I will walk you through each of these amendments and the current standard and describe what changes are being made. The first item for consideration this evening is pertaining to our steep slope requirements. This is a proposed change to both Chapter 144, the subdivision ordinance, and Chapter 165, the zoning ordinance. And this is a revision to amend the definition of steep slope from 15% and 50%, respectively, to 35%. Both chapters, as it pertains to many land applications, such as subdivisions, site plans, and the Transfer of Development Rights Program, and having a consistent standard that can be applied evenly, irregardless of the situation, is needed. And again, that 35% number comes from the committee recommending a number that was kind of between those two values. Our second item for consideration pertains to our farm wineries, farm breweries, and farm distilleries. This is, again, additional regulations for specific uses contained in Part 204. And this is a revision to remove the provisions for festival permits. This body will be familiar that the Board of Supervisors in the spring of 2021 actually removed Chapter 86 of the Frederick County Ordinance as it pertained to festival permits from the Code of the County. And the amendment would eliminate that festival permit requirement, which is no longer part of the County Code, and again, would remove that limitation of 100 persons from events held on farm wineries, farm breweries, and farm distilleries. The next item for consideration pertains to inoperable motor vehicles. And this is a revision to both Part 101, the General Provisions and Definitions section, and Part 204, the additional regulations for specific uses. And this is a revision to prohibit the unscreened storage of inoperable trailers, including tractor-truck trailers, camping trailers, semi-trailers, and specify that they would be treated like other inoperable motor vehicles. Currently, the zoning ordinance prohibits the unscreened outdoor storage of inoperable motor vehicles. However, our current definition does not include regulations of trailers, and we've been dealing through our zoning inspection efforts with a number of issues as it pertains to inoperable trailers. This amendment is seeking to regulate trailers in the same manner that we regulate other inoperable motor vehicles, and staff would clarify that we don't pertain the inoperable motor vehicle standard to farm-use vehicles that have a farm-use tag, and we would apply that same standard to farm-use trailers. The next amendment for your consideration has to do with pedestrian access, which is in part 203, supplementary use regulations for motor vehicle access. And this is a proposed revision to amend the section for pedestrian walkways and trails to ensure pedestrian accommodations are provided to implement comprehensive plan policies for the future conditions of planned roadways. The zoning ordinance currently requires sidewalks only where they are planned to be included as part of a corridor or walkway plan. That's not something that we have specifically called out in our ordinance, but we do have other provisions for trails and pedestrian accommodations in other sections, so it's an effort to simplify the language in the zoning ordinance and apply the standard that we apply in the subdivision ordinance to the zoning ordinance. Again, clarifying those standards and making them consistent among both of those tools. And finally, your last item of consideration pertains to street design, and this is in the design section of the subdivision ordinance, and this is a revision to modify the requirements for the minimum right-of-way for each street classification. That's your local streets, your minor collector, major collector, and arterial roadways to ensure that the design of the roadway fulfills future roadway classifications as specified in our comprehensive plan and also meets all the current criteria as required by the Virginia Department of Transportation, or VDOT. Presently, the section of the ordinance specifies a minimum right-of-way, which we have found to be insufficient for planned future conditions that are contained in the comprehensive plan. And again, when we're talking about those future conditions, we're talking about curb and gutter, sidewalk or trail segments, additional lanes, turn lanes, medians, things like that that are called for in the plan. So the Board of Supervisors discussed this amendment at their December 8th meeting, and they sent it to public hearing. And this item is presented to the Planning Commission this evening as a public hearing item, and staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission on these proposed amendments to forward to the Board of Supervisors. And I'm, of course, happy to answer any questions you may have as it pertains to these items. Thank you, sir. Any questions for Mr. Coyle? I have some questions. Does this mean that every single subdivision is going to have to have sidewalks? That is the current standard that we apply to subdivisions. This would pertain to the zoning ordinance. So in most cases, it's going to be for our business and industrial districts, but ensuring that we have sidewalks on all properties that are being developed. Where the planned road condition calls for, road condition calls for sidewalks. Okay. And what about affordable housing? When you get curb and gutter and sidewalks, it's really pushing the price up on any kind of construction. Presently, the zoning ordinance does not have a specific section for affordable housing. We don't have any. If that's something you all would like for staff to look at, I'm sure Mr. Pearson would be happy to add that to our work program for next year. Mr. Thomas? In the subdivision ordinance, and I don't think it does, but I just wanted to check, there is no references on private roads or streets that would refer to steep slopes, is there? Because if we're changing the steep slope in the subdivision ordinance from 15 to 35 percent, if that term is used to determine the type of surfacing for a private road, 35 percent slope would be a little much on a private road. It doesn't have anything to do with roads and driveways and things like that. It's about how much land area where a steep slope, as defined by the ordinance, can be disturbed. We don't use the term steep slope when we're referring anywhere to private roads or driveways. Not that I'm aware of, no, sir. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I should have checked on that just to be sure because I didn't think it did, and I looked, and I couldn't find it. But sometimes there's little innocuous terms pop up that come back to bite us. Where steep slopes comes into play is the ordinance allows for a certain percentage of steep slopes and other environmental features to be disturbed. So by amending the threshold for that, we may increase the amount of steep slopes The challenge that we had is there are cases where both the subdivision and the zoning ordinance apply to a particular property, and we have two different standards. They create an issue when Public Works is reviewing it and they're implementing the subdivision ordinance standards. And when Planning and Zoning is looking at it and saying our ordinance is 15%, we've had some issues where the development community has expressed concern with not having a consistent standard. If we're using 35% as a definition for a steep slope, just bear with me a little bit here. If we use the term steep slope in referring to a private driveway, then it would be 35%. That's my point. We need to make sure that when we redefine steep slopes as 35% overall, that we're not hitting something that we didn't intend to hit. I don't believe it would have that type of impact on a project. The only regulations we have for private driveways are for entrance spacings per VDOT. Once it leaves the right-of-way, the county has nothing to say on how a person builds a driveway. As long as we don't cross the term up. I have questions. Lots of them. I was trying to talk to them before. First, the pedestrian. I was trying to talk to them before. First, the pedestrian. I was trying to talk to them before. First, the pedestrian. I was trying to talk to them before. First, the pedestrian. Currently, in there, it says Board of Supervisors, and that's being taken out. I believe it's because they voted they didn't want to be part of that. I just want to verify that publicly. Just trying to... Yes, we're taking away that requirement because we no longer require master development plans to go before the Planning Commission and the Board of Supervisors. When reviewing those, the Board doesn't have a... The Board doesn't have an opportunity to ask for anything additional. It's a simple cleanup item. When we did the change to master development plans in the fall, we did not catch that section. I just wanted to make sure because it makes it where you have no place to go, really. Okay. And then on the street designs, you took out all the traffic information, which I fully understand. And in our discussion, you said we're going to go by VDOT. So should we... Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Ms. Keane. Yes. Let us see here. need to be implemented. As I explained before the meeting, in some cases they may require a sidewalk, they may require a curb and gutter, they may require a median. In other cases they may not because the road function doesn't call for that in that particular area of the county. So by removing the minimum right away, we're trying to allow ourselves enough flexibility to work with the developer and VDOT to come up with what that standard would look like on a particular piece of property. Yeah, I understand, but we're putting in a specific number. Like you're saying this wide for this type of street, this wide for this type of street. If it's a major corridor, if it's a minor corridor, if we're gonna go by VDOT, they could change those numbers next week. In regards to the local streets and the minor collectors, the numbers that are provided are the standard that VDOT intends to continue to apply. They have not changed. It really pertains to the major collector roadways and the arterial roadways. Okay. And then back to the steep slopes I was talking to you about. I think you may be able to help me, Mr. Erd, since you were my surveyor. If we go from a site that's now 50% to 35%, that's saying before if you had a slope of 50%, you could only disturb 25%, correct? Correct. Okay. Okay. So now, which, okay, that's what it is. But if you take it from 50% to 35%, now more of our property is gonna be where you can only affect it 25%. That it is. And I wanna know what that's gonna do to, like, business slots? Are we saying you can only use 25% of your property? Or like the neighbor, I talked to you about the neighborhood up the street from me, and I live there now. in Back Creek, it's definitely sloped and they have houses in there so you're gonna say well now you can't have these rural little neighborhoods. I'm concerned about the 50 to 35. As I explained in the presentation it's a it's what percentage of the lot can be to what percentage of that feature steep slopes as they're defined can be disturbed. You are right by taking it from 50% to 35% you may increase the amount of steep slopes on a particular piece of property but we are trying to implement a consistent standard and what we have found is that we don't have a consistent standard between the two ordinances. Okay then why not go to the 50% so you're not taking people's either business lots or personal lots that they want to build a home on and saying well you can't dig your foundation because you're gonna deserve 20% of the property. When you're at 37% when your at 35% instead of 50. I'll look to Mr. Oates maybe a little bit to clarify because he was one of the people I recommended at the committee but 50% is almost a near vertical slope. We don't have people trying to build on 50% so by lowering that threshold we're trying to preserve. Preserve more land, right? We're trying to preserve the integrity of the topography. You were my surveyor so I trust you. Make me understand. understand there's not a lot of area in the county that uh goes much over 35 percent 50 percent is basically you're in the rock ledges uh walking up a 35 slope you're in your window pretty quick uh whenever you're doing a grading plan 35 works out to be a one to three slopes or for every three feet you go out you drop a foot okay um with bare dirt that's about as steep as you want to go because after that it's going to start washing away um if you go over that you have to start putting down matting um and really a three to one slope is even difficult to take a riding mower up and mow uh if it's going to be in a yard area you try to do it at one to five so the 50 slope like i said there's very few areas in the county basically out along timber ridge and uh charlotte land that area that reaches 50 so it's not going to affect our business areas because down here along the interstate uh you don't get those kind of slopes around there even 35 you're not going to get i can't remember the last time i did a site plan where i even had probably even a 50 slope that you just don't see that that often uh so the 35 is definitely not going to affect businesses up and down the corridor anybody anyone one more the trailers i agree we shouldn't have run down trailers but if i was looking at where it says a trailer has to be tagged and inspected so if i had if a business has a large property and they have a trailer just a wrong amongst their property they never intend on going on the road to satisfy this they have to tag it get it inspected? If you have a farm use tag which exempts it from those... No, not farm use, a business. You'd have to screen it from view when it's being parked on the property. If it doesn't have a tag even though it's in perfectly good shape, if it has no intention of going on the road. If it's not being used for road hauling, it would need to be screened under the screening requirements of the zoning ordinance. It can't be parked and visible from adjoining properties and roadways. I could probably also take this one. If it's a business, as you're saying, say it's a 50-acre industrial site and it never goes out on a state road, then it would just be considered equipment on site that's running around like a forklift or something else. And the county wouldn't even go to look at it unless someone called in with a complaint and said, hey there's a trailer out there without a tag. Well if it's being run around a lot and it's being used all the time, then it's obviously operable. So it wouldn't be a violation. Yeah, but what I'm saying is, like a forklift's not tagged and inspected. So the trailer, if it's not leaving the site, it's considered like an on-site piece of equipment that they're using like a forklift. So it's operable, it's moving around. But again, the county's not going to go out on private property if that trailer doesn't leave and it's not an eyesore. If it's cut in half or it's been burned and it's sitting there without wheels on, totally different story. But I don't see this affecting any businesses. This is mainly out in the rural and residential areas where people are going to complain, not inside of industrial parks. Then why is it in there they need to tag it and inspect it? Did we get a number? Yeah. We got a number of complaints on like people parking semi-trailers on their property, rural property. They're just out there and they're being overgrown by the landscape and they're creating an eyesore. They have an old camper that's burnt out that they have parked on their property and that's where we're getting complaints. And under the current definition of an operable motor vehicle, we can't do anything about trailers, we can't do anything about campers. So by specifying them in the ordinance, we're allowed to enforce it. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. I don't think I'm making my point. I agree with you. There shouldn't be run down things trashing up the county. I get it. They're an eyesore, they're dangerous. But what I don't understand is if I'm talking about that industrial trailer or any trailer that's not on an RA property, because it looks like we're exempted from this. What you're saying is, because my understanding as a citizen, I'm not going to be able to get a trailer that's not on an RA property. I'm going to have to get a trailer that's not on an RA property. I'm going to have to get a trailer that's not on an RA property. I'm going to have to get a trailer that's not on an RA property. I have to tag things and get them inspected when I was going to drive them on the road. Correct. Not because I'm using them on my property. So I agree with it shouldn't be run down and all, I just don't understand why we're telling someone you've got to tag and inspect your vehicle if it's never ever going to be on the public streets. I think the zoning administrator and the inspector make the determination like Mr. Oates is saying, if it's a piece of equipment being on a public street, it's not going to be on a public street. Right. If it's a piece of equipment being used for a manufacturing or an industrial process versus somebody just having an 18 wheeler parked on their property, it's untagged and creating an eyesore. I still don't think we should get in the business of telling people they have to tag things that aren't meant to be on the road. I mean, a tractor trailer is meant to be on the road where it's kind of useless. So that's to me, and a car, but trailers, I don't know. Mr. Chairman, if I might just chime in and provide a little bit of perspective. Sure. It's worth noting that currently an inoperable vehicle applies to an automobile that's not tagged or inspected, even if it's not going on the road. And we're looking to establish a definable standard. So when our inspectors out there, they're not utilizing their own judgment for something that they can't pull out on the road to see if it's operable. Right. It's not operable or not. It's this having the tags and inspection on it is an easy means to determine whether or not it's operable. That's defined by the state for certain criteria. And so this helps us enforce an ordinance in order to avoid junkie situations, essentially. And I hope that helps kind of clarify the situation a little bit. It clarifies, but I don't change my feelings. Any other questions? Anyone else? At this time, this is the public hearing. At this time, I open the public hearing to anyone who would like to come forward to speak to us for or against these items. Please come forward now. We don't see a lot of people running forward here, so I'm seeing no one. I close the public hearing and then discussions among commissioners. Anybody have any discussion? I'm seeing no one. I move we adopt the changes to the ordinance that are consistent with the conference plan. Okay. We have a motion. We have a second to move this forward to the Board of Supervisors. We'll start with Ms. Kozel. Kozel, yes. Kenny? Kenny, yes. Brumback, yes. Manuel, yes. Oates, yes. Thomas, yes. Triplett, yes. Dawson, yes. I'm going to be the dumb. No. Chairman, yes. So this will move forward for Board of Supervisors on January 26, 2022. Next item is other. Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One update from a current planning applications perspective. Opec and Crossing, formerly the Haggerty property, which is located next to the water reclamation facility on Route 7, is coming back to life with 574 units, 194 townhomes, and 447 single-family dwellings. That's just noteworthy for you all to be aware of. It's an old project that's coming back to life. And then lastly, the Board will be having a work session before their next meeting, at 5 p.m. It is just a Board work session, not a joint planning and Board work session. But planning commissioners are invited to attend and hear about the topics. They're both planning-related. We're going to be discussing potential changes to our ordinances as it relates to short-term rentals, and then also giving an overview of the general concepts of planning that the Board needs to keep in mind as they prepare to get their heads ready for retreat conversations that we've been referring to as kind of Planning 101. So I just wanted to invite you all to that meeting. It's next week. Happy to answer any questions. Our next planning meeting will be? 19th, correct? Yes, sir. Okay. One other thing. I want to take this opportunity to thank Kevin Kenney for his outstanding service and dedication to the Planning Commission. And as being chairman, you've done a lot for this county, and it's greatly appreciated. Thank you. Thank you for your kind words. Mr. Oates? Yeah. Well, I'd like to thank the Planning Department for giving the Board of Supervisors a planning lesson. I appreciate that. They serve you. And, Kevin, I remember talking to you several times and trying to convince you to become a planning commissioner, and you did, and you've been an outstanding one and a good chairman. I'm jealous that you're walking away a few meetings before me. So now you're going to be at home on Wednesday nights pestering Dee. Sorry. Don't worry. Thank you for participating. Thank you for being part of this. Thank you, sir. Thank you for your kind words. It's been a pleasure. It has. And it's been a challenge at times. I'm turning it over to good hands. We still have a fantastic group of commissioners. We have a fantastic staff that does a wonderful job. And it's just life and real work gets in the way. And I've got other things to concentrate on, but I've enjoyed every bit of it. And, Gary, you were instrumental. Yes. And getting me on this commission 10 years ago. And it's been a very loyal ally along the way and a good resource along the way. And, Mr. Thomas, it's always I'll miss looking to my left and seeing you there with ready for the spoken word on how to help us through a lot of difficult things. You are my two go-to guys. So I appreciate everything you all did through the years, my last four years being chair. Appreciate everyone. Matt, I'll address them. Motion to adjourn. So moved. Second. We'll adjourn. Thank you.
