Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2025-11-05
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=304
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you Good evening. I will call the November 5th meeting of the Frederick County Planning Commission to order. And with that, Mr. Thomas, will you please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance? Please stand and join us. I pledge to lead the discipline of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. The next item is the adoption of the agenda. Mr. McKay, did you want to add an item to the agenda? No, just to add it to the agenda for discussion, sir. Yeah, I would like to add a discussion about rural areas and substations. I'd like to add an item as well. The discussion about prayer that was mentioned at the end of our meeting last time. I think Mr. Whitaker is going to bring that up for us. I'm going to second that. Okay. Mr. Pearson, does it matter where we put this on the agenda? I would put all of it at the end. Yeah, right. You can put it right before my item with current planning applications, if you're so inclined. Okay, so we'll have item nine dealing with Mr. McKay's suggestion on substations, and item 10 dealing with prayer. So we have a motion with two amendments. Is there any discussion? I'd be glad to accept a motion on the amended agenda. Is there a motion to approve the amended agenda? So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. And we have an agenda. We have minutes from the previous two meetings, September 3rd. Minutes were provided with our agenda packet. Any comments? Any comments on the September 3rd meeting? Minutes. Seeing none, is there a motion for acceptance of these meeting minutes? So moved. Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. And they are adopted. October 1st meeting minutes. Any comments, corrections, additions? Seeing none, is there a motion to accept that? So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Any discussion? Any discussion? Second. Okay. Any discussion? Any discussion? Any discussion? Second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. And we have adopted those as well. That takes us to committee reports. Do we have any committee reports? To my left. Frederick Water had their... Can you turn your mic on, sir? Yes. Sorry about that. Frederick Water had their monthly meeting for October and we also had a retreat for all the new board members with staff and their legal representation. So...but... There was nothing really out of the ordinary in the monthly meeting for October. So that was about it. Very good. Okay. Any committee reports to my right? Seeing none, we have Miss Bloom with us this evening from Winchester. Good evening, ma'am. Good evening. So in Winchester's update, our last meeting was October 21st. We granted a conditional use permit to convert ground floor non-residential use to residential in the B-1 area. And we are going to have a new unit in the B-2 area in the B-3 area. And we are going to have a new unit in the B-4 area in the B-5 area in the B-6 area. And we are going to have a new unit in the B-6 area in the B-7 area. So we are going to have a new unit in the B-8 area in the B-9 area in the B-12 area in the B-12 area, and we are going to have a new unit in the B-12 area in the B-12 area. So we are going to have a new unit in the B-3 area for the next two years. Any other comments? All right. Well, I think that's it for this meeting. Thank you. Mill and Valley Avenue as a storage facility. We found it appropriate. We've been considering revoking a conditional use permit for live music at Milano Sports Bar. At our last meeting, we requested more information about it. We had a work session today. We reviewed some more information, and we continued to deliberate about it. So that'll be coming up again at our meeting this month. And lastly, at our last meeting, we requested to discuss the closure of Buscalen Street through the walking mall. We had some discussion, and today at our work session, we continued a short discussion about closing Buscalen Street. So those are our updates. Thank you very much, ma'am. Mr. Liero is here to report from the Board of Supervisors. Sir, congratulations on your victory in your election last night. We look forward to four more years of you working hard for the county. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Since your last planning commission meeting on October 1st, the Board of Supervisors has met twice, October 8th and October 22nd. There were no planning commission public hearings or other business on either one of those agendas, but I will cover a couple of transportation issues from the October 8th meeting. Exit 317 interchange project. The Transportation Committee recommended to the Board of Supervisors on October 8th to authorize staff to convert Welltown Road and Crown Lane, which is in the vicinity of Exit 317 north of the city of Winchester, to authorize staff to convert Welltown Road and Crown Lane into one-way pair as an alternative to address intersection improvements from the diverging diamond intersections that had previously been submitted. That was approved. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chair? Thank you very much, sir. That completes our presentation. Committee reports. Next will be citizen comments. Before we do that, I do have one additional thing I want to add. We have a new certified planning commissioner in our midst. Mr. Justin Kearns has completed the course and I would like to congratulate you, sir. We look forward to working with you with this newfound knowledge that you have and expect much greater performance out of you, sir. I appreciate it. I appreciate the support from the staff from Frederick County and from the board here. And from the commission, it was a great experience. If you haven't done it, I would definitely recommend doing it. The peer learning and the pretty much the entire part of the process was fantastic. So I appreciate the support. Thank you. Item six is citizen comments. I'm sorry. I'm five citizen comments during the citizen comments. This is the time for individuals who wish to speak to the planning commission on any items that are not on our public hearing agenda for this evening to do so. Thank you. If you'd like to speak, if you'd like to address planning commission, please come to the podium. State your name, Magisterial District, and please limit your comments to three minutes or less. Good evening, Miss Spencer. Can you? Your mic's not on. Leslie Spencer from Gainesboro. I just wanted to say I support a small blessing, positive blessing. This room can feel very heavy for a lot of families, a lot of changes. And to bless our land. I mean, I've been in Frederick County for 15 years. Before that, I was in Honolulu, and we were blessing everything. And it always was very thoughtful, everything that we did. And I very much support that. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. Good evening, sir. Tim from the Bat Creek District. I was reading this lighting thing that you want to dim lighting in public areas. My question is, has anybody spoken to Sheriff's Department? On how safe this is for people? I don't want to walk out of Walmart at 10 o'clock at night and have no lights in the parking lot. And I'm not sure if that's where it's going. But has anybody actually talked to the people that are in charge of protecting us? If it's a wise idea to do. And that's my only question. Okay. I will tell you, we're having a public hearing on that ordinance amendment here in just a few minutes. I think we'll all learn more about that. I know we can't have a conversation, but was the Sheriff's Department ever questioned? On what would be good, what would be bad? That's all. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Seeing none, I will close the citizen comment period and we will move into public hearings. And Mr. Klein, good evening. Ordinance to amend Frederick County Code, Chapter 165, supplementary uses for outdoor lighting. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is a... This is an ordinance amendment before your consideration this evening. The first of three, in fact. And this is a proposal to Chapter 165. The zoning ordinance to modernize our outdoor lighting standards, to review those permitted illumination levels, and to revise photometric plan requirements and incorporate LED lighting standards. This ordinance amendment was initiated by staff at the request of the Board of Supervisors. The Board, throughout the year and at that time that we sought to move forward with this, expressed concern with the maximum illumination and fixture height. It's adjoining agriculture and residential uses, particularly with new LED fixtures. And as you can see from the slide, this section was last comprehensively updated in 2009. So there's been significant changes to lighting technology in those intervening years. This is your intent for the lighting section as the purpose and intent of this section is to establish outdoor lighting standards that reduce the impacts of glare, light trespass, and over lighting, promote safety and security, and encourage energy conservation. When evaluating the ordinance, we didn't do this in a vacuum. It wasn't just staff throwing random numbers at a wall trying to figure out what would be easiest to get approved. We did review model ordinance templates. That includes criteria from Dark Sky International, which is an international lighting cohort that provides support to communities and businesses about lighting levels. We did a cross-comparison with other Virginia localities and industry-recommended standards to understand common illumination levels. For various uses, you know, it's always good practice to look and see what your peers are doing and try to evaluate where you fit kind of in relation to them. We reviewed best practices. We're fortunate that the American Planning Association has a service called the Planners Advisory Service, and they have a number of publications that are available free to practicing planners that provide templates and answer a lot of the questions that we would otherwise be just Googling. And we consulted with Frederick County Parks and Recreation staff to understand their lighting concerns, their lighting needs. They were kind enough to put us in touch with their lighting consultants that they regularly consult with for ball fields. So they helped us with identifying, you know, improvements we can make to their sections for clarity when they're working through the site plan process. And, again, many of the proposed changes you'll see in the ordinance reflect the current administration of the ordinance. As we've adopted LED standards, we've continued to kind of evolve the way that we interpret our code. And, you know, we always seek to maintain that kind of business-friendly nature of our ordinance that we're kind of recognized for. And we've been doing that for a long time. And we're going to continue to do that with addressing those concerns. So what you'll see in the proposal reflects not only staff's proposal, but the comments that we received from our development review and regulations committee, which is an advisory committee to the planning commission that contains planning commissioners, but also industry professionals from around the county who weighed in on this ordinance amendment. And we did make some further changes as a result of those discussions. So, again, for proposed standards, Section B pertains to general outdoor lighting standards. We have clarified and provided specificity for the requirements. We have provided the requirements for shielding and downcasting of light fixtures. And we included a reference graphic. That's been a best practice of a lot of communities to include graphics with their text to demonstrate what they are articulating. We've specified a lighting color and a maximum illumination or a correlated color temperature by use type. This is one area where there were significant changes from the draft that went to the committee to now. We did make revisions to address comments from a couple of committee members differentiating between the needs of the lighting, the needs of commercial and industrial users, and residential lighting. And you'll see that reflected in the ordinance. And I can speak to that with a graphic coming up in a later slide. And we specified a standard certification for fixture types. We've recommended that all of the lighting fixtures being used in the county have either a dark sky or illuminating engineering society of North America or IESNA stamp or an equivalent approved by the zoning administrator. It's fairly common. You can actually go to those organizations' websites, type in the type of lighting you're looking for, and they give you a list of all the lighting fixtures that are being used in the county. And you can see all the manufacturers and lighting types that meet that criteria. So it's very easy to use. Also, when you go to like Lowe's and Home Depot, just for like consumers, you can actually toggle on those certifications, and it pulls up lighting that meets that criteria. So they certify a lot of lighting. And it appears that a lot of the cut sheets that we're getting have those stamps on them, so it's not something that's out of practice, what people are currently doing. It just codifies what we're otherwise seeing. And we've proposed reducing fixture heights where the use is adjoining residential and agricultural areas. That speaks directly to the concerns raised by the board members. And again, we're only reducing the height where it adjoins commercial or where it adjoins residential and agricultural uses, addressing that concern. And then we've modified the minimum setbacks from adjoining roadways and property lines. It's typically been 10 feet in practice because that's our parking setback. But we codified that requirement so it's in the lighting code, and we're not relying on referring to the parking code. This is the graphic that we included. Give a shout out to Kayla. She developed this. She's no longer with the department, but she created a very simple, easy-to-read graphic about what shielded, partially shielded, and fully shielded, which is defined in the ordinance, looks like. So it's very clear to whoever picks up the ordinance what we mean when we see fully shielded. It also aids staff when we're reviewing site plans that contain cut sheets of the fixtures. We can make sure that the lighting element is fully contained within the fixture. And that's what fully shielded means, that lighting element is not in there. With LED lights, they're mostly flat now anyway, so that's really not a concern, but in the off chance we're still using incandescent lighting or other types of lighting, you don't have that kind of like bulb effect where you can see that from a great distance. This is the correlated color temperatures that we added to the ordinance. On the left-hand side of the screen is 3,000 Kelvin with a warm white effect. That is the lighting level that's recommended as the maximum lighting level for residential uses. So that's going to be your residential parking lots, your multifamily developments, multifamily buildings, common areas, and so on. And then on the right is 4,000 Kelvin or a white color correlated temperature of CCT. That's more of a true white. What you get when you increase, again, that Kelvin level is you get a more crisp, bright, and vibrant light. It's ideal for commercial and industrial areas. It's ideal for high security areas. It's going to be your outdoor storage areas, your loading docks. Fronts of buildings where employees are coming and going after dark and things like that. The concern was raised by the DRC that 3,000 was not bright enough for those types of areas. And to increase that, so we added two separate requirements, one for residential uses and one for commercial and industrial uses. So that came out of that. And I think the graphic does a good job of showing what we mean when we say that. And it's designed for the safety and security concerns that you heard from the gentleman earlier. And ensuring that those businesses are safe for their employees, for their customers. And so that's what we're doing. And we're doing that for their employees, for their people coming and going in vehicles and things of that nature. Subsection C refers to photometric plan requirements. We've clarified the requirements for who may prepare a photometric plan. And specified, again, that they have that certification, that international certification. Most of our engineering firms, whether they be local or others that we work from across the state, are already doing third party lighting plans. They're sending it out to a lighting specialist. They're doing the aesthetics, the drawings, the lighting levels. And then they're including it in their site plan. Didn't find hardly any examples where anyone was doing it themselves kind of in-house. It's all pretty much done by a third party. So that just clarifies what we're already seeing in practice and what we otherwise require by the ordinance to have it be stamped and sealed by a professional. And then we specify that all plans should include freestanding and building-mounted lighting fixtures in there, including their heights and correlated color temperature. Most of our plans include those kind of cut sheets that have those details. But it's not codified. It's been a practice that we've implemented. We ask for those details when we're evaluating the lighting criteria. But it's not something that's been codified at present. And then we require aiming angles and diagrams for recreational facilities' lighting fixtures. That was something that came out of that discussion with the Parks and Recreation Consultant. It's something that they look for and that we would need to evaluate the light trespass from those facilities onto adjoining properties. Subsection D pertains to those outdoor lighting standards for non-residential uses. Again, that's going to be your commercial and industrial areas. We clarified how we would measure the lighting levels. That's an important component of enforcement. If we do get a complaint, it tells how the lighting, sorry, the zoning administrator or his designee would go out and evaluate where they're measuring it, what height they're measuring from, and how they're taking that reading. Because it does vary based on whether you're at the ground, whether you're at three feet of height, five feet of height, and how far you are from the lighting fixture. We've also provided specified maximum illumination levels for outdoor storage and loading docks. We didn't have a lighting level. So we provided a lighting fixture. We provided a lighting fixture. We provided a lighting foot candle level for those areas. Again, that kind of came out of the DRC discussion as providing that kind of maximum. We've reduced the maximum illumination level at common property lines with properties owned or used for residential and agricultural uses. So that would be, you know, you get an industrial building, the neighbor is a farm or a residence, and we've slightly reduced the illumination level at those property lines. And again, those numbers were not pulled out of thin air. We looked at kind of lighting ranges. And in many cases, we found that our lighting levels were not as good. We were at the maximum of an appropriate range. So we tried to find more of an average number within that range that we felt was appropriate and compared to other localities. So those numbers that you see in the ordinance are reflective of that analysis. We also have added a requirement for fixtures to be turned off when no one is present to use the light except for designated high security areas. So that's a best practice out of Dark Sky International and also the Planner's Advisory Service is to have lights cut off when you're not using them. That makes your, you know, makes the sky dark and doesn't have that trespassing effect. It doesn't have that trespass and element of disruption onto adjoining properties. Again, if they designate the area for high security, that's your loading docks, outdoor storage areas, employee parking, you know, for shift workers that are there all night. Those lighting levels can stay, they can stay lit all night. But where, you know, you're not using the light, it needs to be turned off. And that's, again, a best practice that came out of reviewing those professional organizations. Subsection E pertains to outdoor lighting standards for multifamily uses in residential parking lots. So we reduced those kind of average maintained lighting levels around the site where it adjoins road right of way, where it is at the building entrance, walkways, and pathways, off-street residential parking, and common open space. There was some concern raised by the DRC about reducing the lighting levels for building entrances, walkways, and pathways. So we did slightly bump that back up as a result of that discussion. And we, again, we looked at a range, you know, the lighting professionals recommend a range of lighting. We were kind of at the maximum for most of those ranges. And we kind of backed that down a little bit. It gets to those. And we kind of went back to those kind of criteria that the board asked us to do, which was to reduce the amount of, like, light spillage and reduce the overall lighting level for certain uses. So that has been achieved for the residential parking lots and multifamily uses. Again, not impacting safety and security, but important component of addressing kind of that dark sky criteria. And then subsection F pertains to lighting standards for recreational facilities. We've specified a cutoff time within 30 minutes or after the last event at 11 p.m. And that's a common complaint we get actually from people that live next to some of our sports and sports facilities is that the lights are kind of on all night. They're on well beyond when the event happened. You know, softball game ends and the lights are on all night until the dawn. So we talked to Parks and Recreation. We talked to their lighting consultant. We looked at some of the guides that are out there for recreational lighting. And most cases in most localities, in fact, have a cutoff time. And Parks and Rec agreed with that cutoff time, 30 minutes after the event or 11 p.m., whichever is later. So, again, if an event happens to go well into the evening because of a rain delay, we're going to have a cutoff time. And we're going to have a cutoff time. If an event happens to go well into the evening because of a rain delay or some other need, it would just cutoff 30 minutes after that. And that's to the benefit of the adjoining property owners. We specified lighting levels within a certain distance of the facility to avoid light trespass. It's about 150 feet from the light fixture and what the lighting level would be. For recreational lighting, we didn't have any criteria presently. So that adds some clarity on how the light should be set up on those facilities. And we clarified how we determine the maximum height of a lighting fixture for recreational uses. It varies depending on the type of facility. So whether that be a track and track, ball field, softball field, golf course, whatever it may be. There's a bunch of international, sorry, a bunch of standard documents that we were using as reference guides. But we codified what they were in our ordinance at the recommendation of the Parks and Rec consultant. They said, you know, provide the criteria that you're going to evaluate it by so whoever is designing the lights know exactly what you're basing it on and not leaving it up to them to kind of tell you a standard. So we felt that was an effective recommendation. And then Part G has to do with lighting exemptions. We had a provision that only residential holiday decorative lighting was exempt from the ordinance. And it was brought to our attention that, you know, it should pertain to commercial and industrial areas. If, you know, an office wants to decorate for Christmas or whatever, those lights are exempt for that time, seasonal time period from the lighting code. And that, again, is a very common practice among localities, how we've been interpreting the ordinance. But to clarify that so it's very clear to whomever is reviewing the ordinance. So, again, the DRC discussed this item on September 25th. And they were generally supportive. They had a couple of recommendations which we have addressed specific to those commercial and industrial areas lighting levels and lighting color and to address loading docks, lighting level and height as to not inhibit industrial operations. And, again, those recommendations were incorporated. We strive to maintain our kind of business-friendly approach to the ordinance and making it easy and user-friendly and not burdensome to implement. This item is presented this evening as a public hearing item. So following your public hearing, staff would be seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Senators. Thank you. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Am I right? Mr. DeHaven? Good evening, Mr. Klein. Thank you. It's clear you guys have put in a lot of work on all this, which is great. It looks well-researched. I had a quick question. You had mentioned enforcement earlier when we were talking, I think, about kind of the outdoor lighting standards for the non-residential. We've got very clear kind of the rules that we've got to follow. I'm not sure if you guys have any questions about that. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. We've got a lot of work, obviously, to be done on this, which is great and looks well-researched. I had a quick question. You had mentioned enforcement earlier when we were talking, I think, about kind of the outdoor lighting standards for the non-residential. We've got very clear kind of numbers for flip-candles in here. Where is that enforcement detail or how that process works? So, we have a separate section for enforcement. It specifies how we measure the lighting levels, and that's the key point because right now it varies considerably depending on where you're at-site, how you would measure the lighting level. That could lead to unfairness. enforcement challenge or enforcement issue because you're measuring at the wrong height so it specifies that in there the horizontal sin average maintained horizontal lighting levels correct so the enforcement section isn't in this ordinance it's in a correct the we are violations and enforcement is a separate section okay but the the change is how we at what specify in that term that horizontal plane is the is the key term because that there's criteria on how we measure that excellent thank you the other questions yes thank you for all the work on this we had a very long discussion on this I appreciate all the time that staff took to make all those recommendations that we had um just to just to clarify for the businesses out there is this immediate so so existing business out there with lighting do they need to immediately come into compliance with this as are they grandfathered and what happens with existing businesses out there that's a great question that was something we discussed at the DRC as well the answer is they would be grandfathered in they can continue to operate their site as it currently is if they come in to modify the fixtures you know they can swap either a fixture like for like we could also swap and put a new fixture in that met the lighting criteria that they were approved under previously but if they would go to add additional lights or to relocate lights on their property then they would need to comply with the new ordinance so we give them a little bit of allowance on that and then anything beyond that would require them to comply with the new requirements uh we're fortunate that most of our industrial properties have already converted to LED lighting all of our new projects are utilizing it but a lot of our old projects have just made that conversion themselves over the years it's more efficient it's cheaper they last longer so we don't foresee that being being an issue and the zoning administrator has quite a bit of leeway to determine what his grandfather did not on a property um again it particularly the the change in the lighting Heights only to those commercial and industrial properties that adjoin residential and agriculture uses. So if they're in an industrial park, like Fort Collier Industrial Park over on Welltown Road, they really don't have to make any changes or if they add new lights because they're surrounded by other commercial and industrial properties. It's those instances where they're putting in a warehouse and the adjoining property is a rural residence that they would have to reduce the lighting height that would otherwise be granted somewhere else in the county. So we were very clear at the board's direction on where this new criteria, these new lighting heights would be required and that's only where it adjoins residential and agricultural uses. Thank you. Any questions to my left? Ms. Brannan. Yeah, I'm also wanna clarify some things from our DRRC meeting. We talked about specifically Costco and Walmart under the standards that were proposed and I know you changed them that they would not have come here and you keep talking about industrial but it applies to the parking lot of the sewers as well. Okay, I just wanted you to say that. So everyone knew that. Yeah, and like Costco, for example, is surrounded by other business uses so there's nothing that doesn't affect them. Walmart, same criteria. And the other thing we talked about is we have the industrial put in sidewalks. They are, the lights allowed to hit the sidewalks but not go off because I'm not sure how sidewalks work. If that's on their property, off their property. Correct, so there are lighting levels on the common property lines. Those lighting levels did not change. We just require that the poles be set back 10 feet from the road right away. That's what we're currently seeing on all those properties because they put them at the edge of the parking and the parking has to be set back 10 feet from the road. So we just codified what we otherwise were requiring elsewhere in the ordinance. But any sidewalks we required put in will be lit so they're safe? I mean, yeah, because they're on the property line. Walk on it. Yeah. So the lighting is not zero. It's not pitch black at the property line. It's a lower lighting level than you get like in the middle of the parking lot where you want those kind of high security and safety issues addressed. That's what I thought. I just wanted it. Any other questions? Can you talk to security real quick in the, was the sheriff's department consulted and one of the citizens asked a question about that a few moments ago. Yeah. We did not consult with the sheriff's office. Again, the overall lighting level doesn't drop for the sites. It's just, it's at the common property line. So, you know, I'm sure, I'm not gonna speak for the sheriff, but I'm sure he'd say they're gonna enforce whatever we set. And they're not typically, the sheriff's office isn't tasked with enforcement of the lighting levels. That's the zoning ordinance and the zoning administrator is tasked with that. Mr. Chairman, we can send it to them between now and the board. I know they have somebody certified in crime prevention by environmental design that can look at it for us and make sure we're not missing any marks. Okay, perfect. In security, I know there are, some car dealers, I guess, that have very, very bright lights that stay on all night. Others, you know, nearby that are office complexes are not as bright. What determines who needs security and who doesn't? So, that's something they do at the site plan. It's determined by the zoning administrator. They make the request that they have a high security area. Vehicle display areas typically are covered by that. Parking lots, loading areas, those type of things. So, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not change the maximum lighting that could be allowed in those high security areas. We now, we did change the lighting height. So, if you have a high security area and you're on, let's say, and you're adjoining uses residential, then instead of being able to mount your poles at 45 feet, we say it's capped at 20. How they can address that, they can add more poles or things like that to keep the light on their property and still get that illumination level they desire, but we don't have the height of the light. And it's really the height and seeing the fixture from a distance, especially if you're below, you know, you're in a parking lot, you know, you're in a parking lot, you know, you're in a parking lot, you know, you're in a parking lot, you know, you're in a parking lot, you know, you're in a parking lot, you know, you're in a parking lot, you know, you're in a parking lot, you know, you're in a parking lot, you know, you're in a parking lot, you know, it's really a low grade of where the light is mounted. You can still see that lighting element, even if it's fully shielded. And that's some of the issue we're having with these industrial properties is, you know, they're set up a little higher, the adjoining residences are lower, and you're seeing the lighting elements. So, by lowering the lighting height and lowering the overall lighting level, we address that kind of light trespass issue that's been a significant concern for some of our Board members. Okay. Very good. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak to the Planning Commission about this item, this would be the time to do so. Please come to this podium, state your name, magisterial district, and please limit your comments to three minutes. Ms. Spencer. Leslie Spencer, Gainesboro. Good evening, and thank you so much for the thoughtful work you put into this. I do think we should go back to the 3,000 Kelvin and really look into the safety of driving glare for 4,000 Kelvin as well, as if this truly affects our safety. Where I live, my family still has a very dark night sky. We can step outside and see many stars on moonless nights. We hear owls, we see bats, and often hear a chorus of frogs and crickets. Our night has a healthy circadian rhythm. We live in a very special part of France. We have a very special place in the heart of the city of Frederick County, and I believe families in more developed areas deserve more of these same experiences. And even the loss of that nighttime piece is real. A librarian, a talented gardener I've talked with for 15 years, shared how a new commercial building near her home on Route 50 has changed her backyard in these recent years. The lighting is so bright that her garden began to struggle. She believes the constant night lighting disrupts the insects, her plants, and the environment. She says that the greenery is the only plant to light on, the quiet helpers that make a backyard ecosystem resilient. When the night stays dark, the soil stays healthier and more alive, and living soil even holds more water, making our farms and communities more resilient in both drought and heavy rain. This is part of the quiet balance that helps preserve Frederick County. I recently saw a photograph taken from the mountains above Elkton, Virginia, in our valley, looking at the mountains, and I thought, oh, this is a beautiful place. This is a beautiful place. The mountain was looking down over the town. You could see how the light from development was bright enough to wash the sky over the town. Yet above that glow, the photographer captured a beautiful celestial sky. It's still there. We just have to help make it more possible to see it. And the good news is that this is a change that benefits us in every direction. It improves our health, supports our ecosystems, and strengthens our health. the quiet balance that makes our farms and backyards thrive. It also is a long-term economic investment in tourism and even in attracting headquarters because our backyards, our daily lives will be even better. And it aligns with what the American Medical Association and the Department of Forestry have encouraged. Thoughtful lighting and darker skies support both human health and landscape health. Our Shenandoah Valley, daughter of the stars, still holds a sky of wonder. We are fortunate that the mountains have protected so much that night from the glowing east. And if we make small, thoughtful choices now, we can become even more healthy, beautiful, healthy, and resilient. Thank you. Mr. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak? Good evening. Elizabeth. Elizabeth Peldunas of Peckin District. I didn't expect to talk on this issue, but I think about a year and a half ago, I had a presentation. I attended a presentation at Lake Frederick. The Conservation Club showed a photograph of the Shenandoah Valley and the light that comes from this area. And I have to admit, I was shocked because it looked so much like New York City. So I'm delighted that you're considering changing the ordinances. I think it's a timely thing to do. The one question I have for Mr. Klein, having studied lighting in my own house, is the word lumens is not in any of this. So Kelvin is the color of the light. And as you go from 3,000 up to 6,000, you're going from warm to cold. But you need to discuss the lumens as well. So when he talks about levels, is he talking about level of lumens? Or is he talking about level of pole? So I think I understand that level sometimes is the distance of the lighting source to the ground. That's a level. But I think you also have to talk about lumens because if you don't, you can have something incredibly bright aimed down right color, but maybe you haven't achieved the objective that you're looking for. So I just wonder if that needs to be codified as well. So question. Thank you. Thank you. Tim from Bat Creek District. I just want to clarify what Ed said earlier. I'm not asking the Sheriff's Department to look for enforcement, to look in the areas where this will be done, where there's a higher crime rate, where it shouldn't be done. That's what I was trying to make sure. Thank you, sir. Would anyone else like to speak? Good evening, sir. Good evening. My name is Steve Shank. I live in Cross Junction in the Gainesboro District. And I am a member of Shenandoah Astronomical Society. And as such, I have a very keen interest in what we call light pollution. And as Mr. Klein demonstrated in his images, an unshielded light projects light up into the atmosphere, which creates a light dome as the atmosphere reflects that light back down to Earth. Up in Cross Junction, well, we moved up there 16 years ago. And I walked out in my backyard one night and looked up at the sky and was absolutely amazed. Since the 16 years that we've lived there, I have watched the light dome from Winchester and the surrounding county grow higher and higher into the night sky, basically making the stars in that area disappear. And that is a major concern, I know, of a lot of young people. And that is a major concern, I know, of a lot of young people. And that is a major concern, I know, of a lot of young people. In fact, just recently, I helped a young Girl Scout who was working for her star award, who decided that her project was going to be the disappearing night sky. So this is happening all across the country. I was happy to see that the Dark Sky International Association was approached for information on how do we go about controlling the light that is being emitted into the atmosphere. the light that is being emitted into the atmosphere. It is wasted energy. Having directed light down to the ground is what is needed. And I'm not suggesting that light needs to go away at all. I know every time we talk about lighting, security is a major issue. But how much light is required? We don't need artificial daylight on the ground to be secure. And while we're considering how much energy needs to be projected from these light fixtures, consider how much light is going to be reflected off of concrete surfaces, back into the atmosphere. So there's a certain amount of light that is needed. When you exceed that, you're actually hindering your ability to see what is in the shadows. Your eye pupils restrict. You're not allowing as much light into your eye. You can't see dark images in the shadows. So restricted amount of light, shielded light, is what's required. I thank you all for your time this evening and for this opportunity. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak? Seeing none, I will close the public hearing, which brings us to discussion among commissioners. Ms. Brannan. Tyler, correct me if I'm wrong. I think he addresses the lumens by having the foot candle numbers, correct? Correct. We did look at converting our ordinance to lumens. That is a very common standard internationally. It got to be a little bit cumbersome, just making that conversion to begin with. But also, there are some best practices with using lumens about setting up like lighting zones and having the way it's measured is different. So we felt like that was more of a comprehensive overhaul of the ordinance. And given the relatively narrow focus that we were directed by the board, we stuck to foot candles. But we did consider lumens. We did review the lumens. And we borrowed as many best practices from those professional organizations, including Dark Skies, we could. Outside of the board, we did review the lumens. And we did consider the lumens item. Okay. Anything else to my left? To my right? Okay. I'm sorry, one more comment. I do agree with Mr. Reagan, but I think why it's already addressed it that they're send it for the, what did you say, protective? I think that the sheriff's office has somebody, I can't remember the exact acronym, but it's like crime prevention through environmental design. Yeah. And they send it to them to look at it for that purpose. Yeah. Okay. Good. Okay. This is not district specific. If anybody would like to make a motion, this would be the time to do so. I can make a motion to, and again, I'd like to say thank you as well for the time spent. I think it provides clarity and a much needed update. Obviously, it hadn't been done since 2009. So moving in the right direction. So I'd like to move forward recommending to move to the board, the board's recommendation to move to the board, the board's recommendation to move to the board, and I think that's the first amendment. The second amendment is the ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code 165- I lost it here. 165-201.07 outdoor lighting standards. Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any other discussion? Hearing none, Mr. Whitaker, can you start our voting please? A yes. You are concurring with the proposed recommendations. Yes. Whitaker, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kern, yes. Kozell, yes. Thomas, yes. Sneddon, yes. Octorff, yes. McKay, yes. Brumbach, yes. Brannon, yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on December the 10th, which takes us to item 7B, Ordinance Amendment to the Frederick County Code for the R4 Residential Plan Community District. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to give Tyler a break, even though this is a very important item in the board's agenda. I'm going to give Tyler a break. I'm going to give Tyler a break. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to give Tyler a break. I think that's a lot of work. I think that's a lot of work. You do want to get that done? I think that's a lot of work. Please don't. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is work product. There's only so many presentations you can give in one night and still keep all your facts straight. This is an amendment to your R4 Residential Plan Community Zoning District. This was an ordinance amendment that was initiated by staff, and the last time we touched this section was back in 2013. The intent of the District is to plan for a mixture of housing types and uses within a carefully planned setting. It's intended to create new neighborhoods and it's actually a great introduction from your work session because that's the way I think you've got to be able to work. actually a great introduction from your work session because they are planning a rezoning to go to R4. But the way I like to describe R4 to developers is if you can't find the housing types or the standards you want or traditional zoning districts, the RP or otherwise, you can basically build your own zoning district through an R4 rezoning. You can proffer to new designs that aren't currently in the ordinance and the Planning Commission Board gets to review those as part of the rezoning process and decide whether or not they agree with the stipulations that you have in there. For those who have been to the training, it's often referred to as a planned unit development, if you ever heard that term, or PUD. There's two design requirements in it that we have run into a couple times now as being somewhat challenging to achieving the intent of the district. So the current standards right now for minimum size requires the projects to have a contiguous 100 acres and that they cannot exceed a max density of a 10-acre. So that's a big challenge for the district. And then the other thing that I would like to mention is that the proposed standard that staff would offer for your consideration is to just strike both of those design requirements. We found in practice that when you force people to largest contiguous properties, actually force them to expand the property that they're proposing for rezoning to meet that threshold. And we think there are some good niche properties that would qualify well for an R4 rezoning and could use that standard or that zoning district in lieu of trying to amend our ordinance. So we're going to have to look at that and see if we can get a better understanding of what that means and if we can get a better understanding of what an R4 rezoning is and make it fit their needs. Zoning is very rigorous because it ends up being legal very often. So most communities do have an R4 or PUD district that allows somebody to build outside of your typical zoning ordinance, and we think there's no reason we shouldn't be able to use it on smaller properties. As far as the density, we spoke about this at the work session, we've had three R4 rezonings over the years, Snowdon Bridge, Russell 150, or Heritage Commons where Crossover Boulevard I believe all of them except for Snowden requested an exception to the maximum density allowance. And we could continue to grant those exceptions. But largely, I don't think that the code is necessary to be there. And I don't think that four units per acre is really what's going to get you to where you want to be for a mixture of housing types. You could still, because it is going to be rezoning every time, set a density cap as part of the rezoning given the context of the surrounding area. So you don't give up the opportunity to go for a lesser dense project. Your DRC discussed this item on September 25th and were supportive of the proposed amendment. It is presented for public hearing. We're seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. And I'm happy to answer any questions you all might have. Any questions? Questions for Mr. Pearson to my left. Ms. Brannan? Yeah, Tyler answered a question for me in the meeting, so I'll ask you. If we take away the acreage and the limit, who determines what's appropriate? Like you said, we could put a condition on, but isn't there some place in the ordinances? That. As far as what the appropriate density might be? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. In the comprehensive plan, there's general guidelines for what the appropriate densities are for any given property based on what the planned land use is there. So if it's planned for residential, sometimes it specifies four units per acre or 12 units per acre or something like that. From general planning practice, it's good to pay attention to the adjacent properties and what they're developed at or what they're planned for and try to meet somewhere along the lines. Okay. Okay. Okay. As far as density is concerned. So is that the same answer, Tyler? Yeah, he did. That means we're doing the same thing. Awesome. That's good. You all answered. Yeah. Then I have one more. I had a concern, and I voiced it to Tyler, then I called you, that our border supervisors pretty much made it so a data center coming had to either be a CUP or rezoning. And I am concerned because TM is. allowed in this zoning this residential district so it wouldn't require so is it reasonable to think in that instance that data center should be at CUP and going before rather than just by right it's a reasonable concern and for those commissioners not familiar with the the issue at hand r4 pulls its uses from every other zoning district so when you rezone to r4 you're allowed to establish land bays like you saw at the work session that are allowed for the uses in RP or b2 or in this case TM of those are four districts that have been approved already I think we reviewed them after you called and none of them enabled data centers as a use by right under the TM but it's something to be cognizant of is that you don't have a Trojan horse scenario where somebody's coming with an all-in-one system and you're not able to use it in the same way that you would in a for rezoning they're saying yeah we're gonna allow everything to occur in TM and b2 and RP and you approve it and then the entire property is entitled for data centers but if you continue to employ us as professional staff we'll be aware of that and noting in our staff reports so it's a valid concern I don't think it's something that should derail anything related to these changes though yeah yeah I just hope you don't get it any other questions to my look to my right any questions hearing none thank you very much sir thank you the this is a public hearing if anybody would like to speak to Planning Commission to about this ordinance amendment this will be the time to do so please come to the podium state your name magisterial district and please limit your comments to three minutes but anybody like to speak going once going twice I will close the public hearing okay discussion among commissioners the comments I'll be glad to entertain a motion I guess I can take this one again so I'd like to move recommend to the board the ordinance amendment 165-5 0 1.06 for the r4 residential plan communities owning district to remove remove the minimum size required and amend the residential density requirements second we have a motion in a second any discussion miss Brandon can you start our funding close Brennan yes from back yes okay yes yes yes Thomas yes Cozell yes current Jess D Haven yes Whitaker yes chair votes yes the motion carries this will go to the board of supervisors on December the 10th then moves us to item 7 C we're in some amendments Frederick County code for T and DB overlay districts Thank You mr. chairman traditional neighborhood design business overlay district this ordinance amendment was also initiated at staff but it was at the request of a local engineering firm for a project that they're working on the section was last touched in 2008 and I would note that there is not any existing T and DB overlay currently zoned in the county right now so any changes to it don't implicate any existing properties in that respect so the intention of the T and DB district is to create a business climate supportive to economic activity orderly economic growth but more importantly it is the overlay district we have that allows for ground floor commercial with apartments above that's kind of the sole purpose of its construction and the way it's been built from the ground up one of the issues that we've identified as a potential problem and that was brought up with us by the engineering firm is the maximum height for structures in that district as well as the habitable floor limitation so as we talked about a little bit earlier in the RP zoning district right now you can do a 60-foot apartment building if you're zoned RP but if you want to have a commercial ground floor with apartments above you need to come down to 45 feet and you can only have three habitable floors we believe in speaking with the zoning administrator that that includes the commercial floor so you really limit to a three-story structure and there's really no incentive to utilize this district if it's going to be more restrictive as it relates to structure height than a residential apartment building would it in which we would just encourage them to do the landed land bay development you typically see where you have a 60-foot apartment building and then a commercial complex next to it or further down the street so the proposed standard we have is to do exactly that to remove the habitable floor limitation and let it be governed by the maximum height there's still good enough language in there to make sure that there's the requirement for the ground floor commercial and somebody using it would still have to go through a rezoning to implement it and then just changing that maximum height standard to 260 feet your DRC did discuss this item as well on September 25th and we're supportive of those changes it's presented for public hearing seeking a recommendation to forward to the board and I'm happy to answer any questions any questions for mr. Pearson am I right no my left miss Brandon no thank you very much mr. Pearson this is a public hearing if anybody would like to address this item before the Planning Commission this is be the time to do so please state your name Magisterial District and limit your comments to three minutes would anybody like to speak going once going twice I will close the public hearing commissioners any discussion mr. Goesall make a motion to approve recommendation of the zoning ordinance amendment one sixty five dash seven oh five point zero four for the traditional name I will thank the Board. kab art firm and动 dynforum so .1 0% any questions??" fish friend from thebound area잔s, me between west and I am too. How is it esté que la unjoií huganá?" thank you very much neighborhood design business overlay district to modify the max height and habitable floors allowed. Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Whitaker, can you start our voting, please? A yes vote is that you support this amendment to the zoning ordinance. Whitaker, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kern, yes. Kozell, yes. Thomas, yes. Sneddon, yes. Botter, yes. McKay, yes. Brumback, yes. Brennan, yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. And this, too, will go to the Board of Supervisors on December the 10th. That takes us to item eight, which is an action item, rezoning 08-25 East Gates Commerce Center. This is a request to do a minor profit amendment. Mr. Bishop, good evening. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the commission. We've saved the best for last for you this evening. As you have noted, this is rezoning number 08-25 East Gate Commercial Center. We are not changing the zoning. This is a minor profit amendment, and it's an update to previous rezoning, 002-97. The parcel in question in terms of the whole county is located down here in the southern end of the Shawnee District, where Tasker Road and 522 come together, and there's a zoomed-in version of it with your current zoning map on the screen. It is currently zone B2. That element is not proposed to change. In terms of site history, as noted, this was originally rezoned back in 1997 as part of a much larger assemblage, which finished with B2, B3, and M1 zoned land and spanned both sides of Tasker Road at that time. Of course, we're focused on the parcel that I've just shown you. You have the Walmart Shopping Center, Home Depot distribution. We have a number of other uses in that location. This remaining 30.4 acres of B2 is on the north side of Tasker Road, as we've identified, and remains undeveloped. In terms of comprehensive plan performance, this area is covered by your Southern Frederick Area Plan, which does show this as commercial. It's also part of your Route 277 Triangle Centers of Economy and has a business land use designation within the limits of the SWASA and outside of the UDA, which makes it not a candidate for residential. This proposed minor proffer amendment and existing zoning is otherwise in conformance with the plan's future land use. And of course, there is your long-range land use map, in case you didn't believe me a second ago. Transportation and site access. As noted, you had previous proffers on this parcel, 0297, which did limit street intersections with Tasker Road to five, which is a lot of land use. The three of those that would create intersection with Tasker Road. Proposed rezoning seeks to increase that by one. Tasker Road is identified in your comprehensive plan as an improved major collector. Currently, Tasker Road right-of-way is roughly 80 feet wide. It depends on what piece of it you're looking at, because, of course, you've got a drainage area. You've got wider right there at the intersection with 522. But in terms of the main line, most of it's about 80 feet wide. But to meet the envisioned improved major collector roadway status, we would need to be... That all to be a minimum of 105 feet. So we'd be looking to this applicant to make sure they're doing their half of that from center line, whatever the difference is. So we'd look to work with them on that. And speaking secondhand, Tyler has heard from the applicant that that's a modification that they're willing to go ahead and make. But of course, I will let them speak for themselves when it's their turn. As noted in the VDOT comment letter, the elimination of the road efficiency buffer could make... the future widen of Tasker Road difficult. Hence, the 105 feet we're discussing. In terms of the actual proffer amendment, this would remove the second sentence and revise as follows. Street connections to Tasker Road would be limited to six streets, including existing Rainville and Marcel Drive. That creates four intersections with Tasker Road. So, point just being that some of those already exist. This is not in addition to those. Remove item one under generalized development plan for the 30-foot wide road efficiency buffer. Technically, modern commercial rezonings don't typically have a road efficiency buffer. They deal with the right of way out of hand. Positives. Proposed rezoning does not amend the zoning district, which is still B2, or any of the permitted uses. As I just noticed a second ago, the road efficiency buffers are not typically required from... commercial development these days. And the uses across Tasker Road are commercial, industrial, and would otherwise not require a buffer. Concerns, once again, the right of way, which I've already kind of mentioned a few times at this point. With that... Oh, what'd I do? With that, as noted, this item is an action item. It's not public hearing this evening due to being a minor proffer, qualifying as a minor proffer amendment. We are seeking... a recommendation from the Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors on this proposed amendment to the proffers. I would note something I meant to mention earlier and did not, that just because the county may end up approving this, if such would happen, that does not guarantee a VDOT-approved entrance. Our proffer agreements do not trump VDOT standards. We believe they'll probably manage to work it out, but I want to make that clear that we would not be forcing VDOT's hand on any of that. We would not be forcing anything through acceptance of these proffers. We do have Mr. Curtis Mason here of Gordon & Associates to represent the applicant this evening, and I can take any questions you may have on the staff presentation. Any questions to my left? Ms. Brown, I guess I have a question. I have a question. I'm not sure if it's for staff. It should be for them. In the paperwork, the water comment was that the buffer would be on top of the wastewater, sewer, and drainage easements. So wouldn't they be on the other side of a 105-foot? Like, are things built there already, or that's an easement that can be moved back? There are existing lines there, but I'm not certain in terms of specifically under the proposed right of way. I'd have to let the applicant deal with that since they've done much more in-depth with the specific site. But that is something that would end up having to be, frankly, an applicant issue. Right. If you will. Okay. Through approvals of VDOT and Frederick Water when that time came. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions to my left? Mr. Tang. Yeah. In regards to the efficiency buffer, are there other areas of tasker that would already make it difficult to achieve that widening? No, not specifically. There's definitely areas where historically we only got 80. But as we finally get to those projects, we're probably going to need more because today it's It's always 105 minimum that we talk about for a future four lane divided. There's a few ways to overcome that, either through value engineering in terms of, well, maybe in that section you might not be able to have a median, things like that, as we actually got to assuming a public project moving forward. So I'm not going to say no, that there's not any chances we're going to run into that. But in terms of our feedback on this one, we're trying to avoid that. Right. But removing this buffer could make it more difficult. It would if the applicant were not to go ahead and agree to add the dedication to do the full 105 feet. Any other questions to my left? To my right. Questions? Mr. Thomas. Just to go back to that question. How would the applicant tonight agree to add that 105 feet? Because that would be a verbal statement tonight. Should it come back to the planning commission? Is this something that we should table? Do we get a definite commitment in writing? I'm going to leave. I'm going to say what I'm going to say, but I'm also going to note the planning commission can do whatever they're most comfortable with. However, state code does allow the applicant, even up through the board meeting, to modify proffers at the podium. In a situation like this, once again, assuming the planning commission is comfortable, doing so and assuming they actually do come up here and say, yes, we're willing to do that. We would work with the applicant between now and the board of supervisors meeting to see that proffer modification through. And of course, all the recommendations would be part of our presentation to the board, as well as our interpretation of whether the applicant had followed through on that dedication. Okay. On the flip side, if we don't get a commitment from the applicant, how impactive is this? Okay. On widening Tasker to the width that we want it widened? In terms of the first spitballing here, half of the property, as you come east to west across the frontage of the parcel, for a decent amount of that, you already have the four lanes, and it's not impactful really hardly at all. As you get back deeper in, where Tasker tapers down to not a four lane, that's where we'd start to be concerned about it. Okay. Basically beyond, I want to say, just beyond Rainville. When we say concerned, does that mean we can't do it? Does that mean that we end up with something substandard? We could end up with something substandard. It's a little hard to predict because we're not in project mode, if you will. But picturing myself or ourselves, the county, in project mode where we're trying to get something funded and delivered, you're looking at. The cost and everything like that. So there's a very good chance that we would end up in that situation that I was just describing to Mr. McKay earlier, where, well, maybe we're not going to continue that median section. We're going to come back in and try and do everything we can to fit within the existing right-of-way and end up with less road than we're comp planning for. But the way we have it now, we can build the road we're contemplating. Yes. Okay. Thank you. You know, the question is to my right. Thank you very much, sir. Yes, sir. Is there, and is Mr. Mason planning on making a presentation? I don't have slides, but I'll let him speak for himself in terms of what he'd like to say. Okay. Mr. Mason? Or whoever. Can we get all three of you? Oh, okay. Good evening, sir. Good evening. Well, we've just heard from Mr. Bishop is it appears that you're ready to commit to dedicating enough right-of-way to provide the 105 feet required, and then we eliminate the rest of the road buffer? Is that road efficiency buffer? Is that? Okay. Yeah, for the committing, I'll get the applicant up. But if there are any technical questions, I'm happy to address first. Okay. Okay. So I'm Matt Monahan with DRB. We're the applicant. And then we have Gordon is our design engineer. So as far as the commitment to the right-of-way, when we got the comment, we had said we would be willing to dedicate the right-of-way or reserve the right-of-way on the proffer amendment, which we can show on the plan for the Board of Supervisors meeting. It was something that when we got the comment, we said we would do it, but everything was already submitted and through. So congratulations. Commitment-wise, we can go ahead and add the right-of-way dedication to where the buffering line was for our half of the dedication. Okay. Thank you. Any questions for the applicant? To my right. To my left. Ms. Brannon. With the water comment on the east fence, the gas lines, like, how does the road? Like, will that then have to shift? Is there already things in the ground? There are utilities in the ground right now. I don't know the relation to the potential offset of the right-of-way. Typically, these are pretty wide easements, and they're pushed back decently far in there. Okay. So it does have to be something that needs to be coordinated with VDOT when they want to widen that road. Thank you. Sure. Anything else? To my left. Thank you very much, gentlemen. Thank you. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak to this item before the Planning Commission, now would be the time to do so. I'm sorry. This is an action item. My apologies. Okay. This is Shawnee District. Any discussion among Planning Commissioners here? Wyatt, the commitment is clear. And it's enforceable that, you know, between now and the Board, we will have something in writing that commits to the full 105 feet required. I feel confident that we can work that out. And if the Planning Commission wants to, you can make your recommendation contingent upon that. And then if it isn't provided, staff will inform the Board. The Planning Commission is, in turn, not recommending approval of this because the verbal commitment wasn't followed through with on it. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Would you like to make a motion, sir? Will it? Yes. I can. It's your district. Yeah, I'm on a roll this morning, so I can go ahead and make a motion. I can recommend approval to forward to the Board of Supervisors for rezoning number 08-25 Eastgate Commerce Center with their requested proffer amendments. And we want to clarify that it needs to be included in the revision. Thank you. Thank you. And we will provide the suggestions to the Board to include a commitment of the full right-of-way to accommodate the expansion of Tasker Road. Second. So we have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Well, should we specifically say the 105 feet? Was that wordage okay? Sorry. I think how Mrs. Cozell worded it is fine because it's actually a portion of the 105 that's on their side of the road that we'll be looking at. So we can work through the details with them. and make sure it gets encapsulated. We understand the planning commission's intent. Okay. Ms. Brannon, can you start our voting, please? Brannon, yes. Cronbach, yes. McKay, yes. Bocker, yes. Sneddon, yes. Thomas, yes. Kozo, yes. Kozo, yes. Kearns, yes. Haven, yes. Whitaker, yes. Chairvich, yes. And the motion carries. This is scheduled to go to the board on November the 12th. So that's pretty quick. So, great. Thank you very much. Thank you, gentlemen, for coming in. That takes us to our next item. Mr. McKay had approached me and asked if we could discuss among ourselves the possibility of the planning commission requesting of the board of supervisors to put the staff to work on looking at regulations surrounding electric substations. So, Mr. McKay? Yeah, I just wanted to. I'll make a motion that, you know, we direct the staff to request authorization from the board of supervisors that they amend the rural zoning area district to either establish additional regulations or look into the requirement of a conditional use permit when it comes to putting a substation in a rural area. Okay. Do we have a discussion on it before? Second. Now we can discuss. Now we can discuss. We have a motion and a second. Yes. Mr. Thomas. I think we need to look at the requirements and the buffering and the regulations. I would be very much against having another conditional use permit for it. But I think the buffering requirements, I think our comp plan needs to show areas where we consider it appropriate for substations so that people buying a house, or wanting to develop an area, know that there's a potential for a substation in this general area. But I'm very much against conditional use permits. We've never ever rescinded a conditional use permit because of noncompliance or anything else or complaints. And I think it's, I basically think most of them are a waste of time for the staff. And for the planning commission. But I, certainly there's some cases where it's appropriate. But if we expand it too much, I'm afraid it gets to be something that it wasn't intended. But I totally agree with looking at the standards, looking at the setbacks, looking at the buffers, and also making sure we have something on our comp plan to show areas where we consider it that it could occur in the future. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. It's terrible when somebody moves into an area and whether they don't have the background information, or maybe the realtor doesn't have the background information, but they end up buying a property, not knowing what's going to be next to it, and they don't check on it, and then they end up with a very objectionable use next to it. And I agree, I wouldn't want to live next to a substation. They're a horrible thing to live next to. but we've got to have them. It's one of those necessities we've got to have, but we've got to figure out how to get them in areas where it's appropriate and also put restrictions on them to make sure that we have good buffering, good controls on what surrounds them. Yeah, I would like the staff to be able to research that and see what our best options are and come back with some kind of recommendation if possible. Any other comments to my right? Mr. DeHaven? I think we need to request maybe design requirements specifically for substations be included in the county ordinance. I think that would address some of the buffers and berming and screening requirements specifically for substations. I think that would be a good step. I have some concerns with the county trying to identify on the comprehensive plan where substations should be. I think having the knowledge to effectively locate those, probably isn't something that we have, but I certainly think the inclusion of an ordinance and design requirements for substations is appropriate. Thank you. Mr. Kearns? Yeah, I completely agree that we need to. I think we're all talking about avoiding the situation that we had recently with the 2232 review and the fact that we had almost no power to make any changes or any recommendations. So I absolutely agree that we should recommend that we should do that. And that staff be directed to find some options for us to avoid that situation that we have in the future. I agree. Okay. To my left. Ms. Brown? I agree with Roger. And if we really think it's a problem identifying sites, I think we need to say they're not going against residential housing because that's a horrible way to live. I don't care what buffers you put there. Thank you. I do have a comment. I mean, I think it's easy or somewhat easy to identify the sites because, you know, it's not going to be in the middle of a field. It's going to be near high-voltage power lines. So, you know, maybe it's a buffer, you know, in a distance to these lines. So I don't know. I kind of like the idea that, you know, that we do kind of identify possible areas. Any other comments? I'd like to offer one. A suggestion, perhaps as an amendment to the motion, and that would be that an applicant who wants to build an electric substation be required to have a meeting with the adjoining property owners or citizens before they make their application here to the county so that folks at least have the opportunity to know what's being planned and have an opportunity to come here and share their thoughts about that. With both the Planning Commission and the Board of Supervisors. So if you so desire, I would propose that as a, I would make that as an amended amendment to your motion, sir. And I'd be glad to accept a second. Second. And there are seconds. All right. So the way this works, we've got to vote on the amendment first, and then we'll go to the motion Mr. McKay made. So this is odd. I'm going to vote on my amendment. So if you're in favor of an applicant for an electric substation holding a meeting with the citizens prior to making an application as part of this process, or recommendation that this be part of the process, then the vote would be yes. If you think that's ludicrous and you don't think the public should be informed, please vote no. So on this amendment, Mr. Whitaker, can you start us, please, sir? Whitaker, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kern, yes. Kozo, yes. Thomas, yes. Sneddon, yes. Autorp, yes. McKay, yes. Rumbach, yes. Brennan, yes. We're on exploring. Yep. And the chair votes yes. And the amendment is approved. Now we're back to the original motion, which is to ask staff to ask the board of supervisors to have staff look into the regulations surrounding this process and how we can better protect the citizens. That's my wording. That's not your wording. Can you repeat your motion, sir, just so I don't dilute it? Yeah. I mean, I can kind of adjust it a little bit based on our discussion. I would like for the staff to approach the board to look for ways to amend the rural zoning districts that better look out for residents of areas that would be viable for substations to be added. Okay. So that is the motion. If you are in favor of that, putting the staff to work. Did we say anything that concerns you, Mr. Pearson? No, it's fine. At the end of the day, the thing to remember, what you all are doing right now, is all you're doing is telling the board to authorize us to start working on this. So the broader the scope, the better. And I'm making notes about everything that you've talked about. So we'll explore each one of those avenues if the board does authorize an ordinance amendment. Okay. Okay. With that, that's the motion. Ms. Brannan? Anyone want to start us? Brannan, yes. Brumbach, yes. McKay, yes. Auturf, yes. Sneddon, yes. Thomas, yes. Kozo, yes. Kern, yes. DeHaven, yes. Whitaker, yes. Chair votes yes. And the motion carries. I have a second. So, sir, will you communicate that to the board? We good? Okay. Yes, sir. All right. That takes us to the next item. Mr. Whitaker, were you going to lead us through this, or is Ms. Brannan going to lead us through the discussion on prayer? Let me say this. I apologize. Last meeting, you asked me if we could discuss this, and I told you yes. I adjourned the meeting because I was absent-minded, and I flew right by it, and you asked me if we could get it on the agenda and talk about it in this meeting, and the answer is yes, and that's what we'll do now. Okay. Bless you. Yes, I'd like to have a request that we have a prayer before we have our meeting. We are going to open up our meetings since we all are servants, and it'd be nice to give thanks to our creator and then start going through the process. You all can come up with ways. Do you want to have a local pastor from either one of your churches or take turns saying a prayer ourselves? We can have that discussion. Okay. Okay. Okay. That is... Mr. Whitaker has presented that. We can do that as a form of a motion. Is there any discussion among any commissioners on how we want to handle that? And then, Mr. Fox, I'm going to come to you as well, sir. Yes. If we do it, and the planning commission wants to do it, and I'm not saying one way or the other, I think we ought to do it in the same format that the board does it, that we... And I don't know who invites the pastors for the board to give the prayer. I do not think it should be given by individual planning commission members. I think it should be a broad representation of all the faith-based organizations in Frederick County so it would rotate, and I don't know who's responsible for the board to get it rotated, but I don't think we should be one faith-based. I think it should be we give everyone an equal opportunity if some organization wants to come in. And... I don't know who's responsible for the board to get it rotated. I think it should be we give a prayer. So I would be in favor of doing it, but not by planning commission members or by staff members. I think it should be somebody of faith from the local community and then rotate it. Mr. Chairman, I had failed, or I planned to introduce Mr. Fox after this agenda item got added, but I'm pretty sure the planning commission hasn't had that introduction yet. So Mr. Fox is the new county attorney. He joins us from the Hampton Roads area with experience in both Norfolk and Chesapeake, and we're really excited to have him. Just before you engage in conversation with him, that's who he is. Thank you. Very well. Mr. Fox, obviously you and I had some e-mail dialogue about this very suggestion from Mr. Thomas earlier today. Would you like to elaborate on that, sir? And welcome to our planning commission. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate that. It's wonderful to be with you this evening. Thank you, Wyatt, for the introduction. Thank you for the opportunity to talk to you about such a great idea. It's such a lighthearted issue as prayer at public meetings. So really, I don't have a whole lot to add. After what's already been said, I think those guidelines and suggestions are appropriate. Generally, the rules are that the prayer given has to be welcoming and inclusive and focused on the deliberative nature of the legislative process, the quasi-judicial process that you're engaged in. You need to stay away just from the things you think you need to stay away from, which are language that tends to be exclusionary or that suggests that anyone present who doesn't want to participate in the prayer is going to be looked upon less favorably, especially as they may be here with a matter that comes before you in your very direct, very person-touching, quasi-judicial capacity. Very similar, if not exactly the same, as the guidelines that apply to the Board of Supervisors. So the notions that you've discussed, would be completely appropriate within those guidelines. It's generally, I don't want to say it's better to have members of the community, clergy members, members of the public, give the invocation, but it is better in some ways that that is a member of the community and not someone that's going to be later voting on matters on the agenda. However, that being said, it also is permissible for members of the body to give the invocation. That can be sort of as done as a default. If you don't happen to have someone from the Board of Supervisors, or someone from the public that's been identified to give the invocation, just as members of the body, you just need to be a little more limited in terms of thinking about the fact that you'll be later voting on matters before you. Members of the public are there, so making sure that whatever you say doesn't cause anyone in the audience to think that they're going to be treated less favorably if they appear to not participate, if they decline to participate, if they leave the room, if they come into the meeting after that stage of the meeting. That's really the only limitation on members of the body giving the invocation, as well as having that general inclusive and welcoming language, focusing on the legislative process and asking for guidance and support through that. So that's a long way of saying it's certainly permissible. You can adopt the same guidelines as the Board of Supervisors have identified another planning commission in Virginia that does this. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm not sure if you can hear me.anska I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm sorry to hear you. I'm not sure if you can hear me. I'm sorry if you can hear me. I'm sorry if you can hear me. I'm sorry if you can hear me. I'm sorry if you can hear me. There's really no surefire way to prevent any kind of First Amendment challenge to what you may decide to do because it all depends on what you actually do, how it's perceived by members of the community, and whether under the totality of the circumstances review, it strays a little too far. far into what is prohibited under the First Amendment as an establishment of religion. So that's a difficult standard to put very strict guidelines around. But if you stick to, again, what our Board of Supervisors does, what you're contemplating in your comments, you should have no issue with it. I'm happy to take any questions. Thank you very much, sir. Okay. Any other comments? Yes, Ms. Brandt. I just want to say I concur with Roger. It's better to do it consistent with how the Board of Supervisors does it. And I will say from coming to a Planning Commission meeting and going to a Board of Supervisor meeting, I'm more comfortable with the lighthearted blessing prayer than the moment of silence. I associate that with tragedy and I'm more comfortable with the lighthearted blessing prayer than the moment of silence. And it just seems heavy to me. So I prefer the change. Any other comments? Can I ask why this, why are we bringing, is this, was there an issue or a problem or some animosity on the Board? Oh, no. It's just the other, we do it at Parks and Recs. We do it at the Board of Supervisors. And I question why we didn't do it here since we are a nation under God. I mean. I think it was appropriate to do so. Not to offend anyone, but not to silence anyone that is a believer of the Creator and this nation being under God. In which religion? I'm sorry, which religion was this going to, was this definitely? The believers in the God, the God of Abraham, Jacob. Okay. So this is a Christian prayer. It's a Christian. So this would only be a Christian prayer. Judeo-Christian. Well, I think, you know, if we say all organizations of faith in Frederick County, that would open up to all organizations of faith, whether it's a Jewish, Christian. Well, I just think of my neighbors and my friends are, you know, I've got friends that are Buddhist on my block and I've got friends that are Muslim and I've got friends that are Jewish. I think it needs to be open to all organizations of faith. It didn't sound like that. Sorry. Well, I think when we say all organizations of faith, that covers all of them. There's, you know, thousands of different organizations of faith worldwide. And if they're in Frederick County, I think we ought to accept them to come in and give a blessing in the way they do it. I appreciate that view. I personally, I don't feel that a public meeting is the place. I feel if someone wants to make a prayer, absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. It's not my business what anybody's religion is. I don't care. And if you feel more comfortable making a prayer before a meeting, then that's amazing that we live in a country where you can do that and to whatever religion you want. But I just, I think of my friends and I think of my neighbors that might not be comfortable in situations like that. And I know it's a lighthearted thing and I understand that for some people. But for some people, it's not. So I just, I would say I'm definitely not in favor. And I appreciate and I absolutely, I respect, you know, your religious views and whatever religion you are. And that's amazing. That's fantastic. But I'm not personally in favor of at a public meeting having prayer. But I've been in my position. I've been exposed to a lot of different faiths. And I have been in meetings where an imam. Gave an Islamic prayer where Jews in the same meeting gave Jewish prayers. And I'm not saying it right because they don't give prayers. They give other things. But I, you know, I don't have a problem with, you know, if somebody has a problem with the moment of silence, maybe this is something to try. If the board does it, obviously they have researched how to do it correctly. And I'm not aware that we've. Had any First Amendment violations or suits against the board for for doing it. So but it's it's again, it's it's something that would have to be the consensus of the planning commission. Mr. Pearson, this is staff able to arrange for for a pastor to do this for us. Yeah. Like like all things in local government. I hope to steal from the board of supervisors and their and their rotating list of clergy. I'm not exactly. Sure how they comprised it initially. But I feel like it's an open list that accomplishes the goals of the planning commission. And in turn, if they're kind enough to share that with me, I think the comment they made to me when I asked about it earlier today was if we're going to do it at the planning commission, we may want to put a request out there to add more to it so that there's, you know, some variety. Because a pastor may not want to be coming every every Wednesday in that respect. So but that's that's the initial feedback that I got on the topic. OK. Very good. All right. That is the issue. Do you want to put that in the form of a motion, sir? Can I can I make one more comment? Yes. Miss Brands. Since we're talking about making a list, because that's what the board of supervisors said. Also, if a clergy wants to be added. Like once a list is made, there's they can reach out and say, I would like to partake. We are equal opportunity. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. OK. OK. Anything else? Do you want to put that in the form of a motion, sir? Yes. I'd like to make a motion that we have a clergy member of all faiths come in and say a prayer at the beginning of all of the meetings. OK. There's a motion. Is there a second? Can I? I guess we need to second it rather than modify. OK. I'll second it. We have a motion and a second. Is there any additional discussion? I just think we should say follow how the board of supervisors do it. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. OK. So we're consistent in the county. I agree with that. I agree with that. I think he had to avoid an amendment. I think he can just accept that as part of his motion since she also seconded it. Yeah. OK. So the motion is to open with a prayer, doing it the same way the board of supervisors does it with a rotating list, and be open to all faiths. And we have a second to that. We all good? Good. OK. You want to start our Mr. Whitaker? You want to start our voting, please, sir? Whitaker, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kerns, no. Kozo, yes. Thomas, yes. Sneddon, yes. Autorf, yes. McKay, yes. Rumbach, yes. Prannon, yes. Chair votes yes and the motion carries. So, Mr. We're not meeting again in November, are we? Did I say we're canceling our? I believe so, yeah. Because I didn't. Yeah. OK. OK. So we'll begin with our first meeting in December. Yes, sir. With prayer. OK. I will try to make sure that that's arranged in time. Give me grace if not. I can invite my wife if we need to, but that might make for a long meeting for me. Maybe we should put a time limit on it. OK. That takes us to current planning applications. Yeah. No specific applications, but I do want to do one more introduction. OK. I noticed the new face there over next to Mr. Fox. This is Eric Bittner. He's joined our staff as a planner, too. Eric actually grew up in Frederick County and then made the mistake of working for other planning departments before coming to join ours. But he comes with a wealth of experience from that time, and we're really glad to have him on board, and I'm sure you'll see a lot more of him. So thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's all I have, but I'm happy to answer any questions. Welcome back. I have another, and it's just my thoughts. If we have a planning commission retreat, I would like to see us, the planning commissioners, get together to discuss our zoning ordinance, all of our zoning ordinance, as a macro view. I think our residential ordinances need some revisions on densities. I would also be in favor of adding a high-density subsection to a residential ordinance, which we... would then identify in comp plans and everything so that people knew that this area was going to be higher density. If we are serious about preserving rural areas, we need to increase the density in some of our urban areas and residential areas. I also think that the planning commissioners need to come together on this comp plan cycle and come up with a definition of what we want to see as a rural area. I think that the planning commissioners need to come together on this comp plan cycle and come up with a definition of what we want to see as a rural area. I think that the planning commissioners need to come together on this comp plan cycle and come up with a definition of what we want to see as a rural area. You know, we have a lot of things we allow in rural areas, but what do we want to see as a rural area? Do we want to see farms, apple orchards, or do we want to see five-acre houses? Five-acre houses, in my opinion, are low-density residential areas. They're not rural areas. Right now in Frederick County, we have 7,500 five-acre lots, between two- and six-acre five-acre lots. Certainly, there's a place for five-acre lots. There's a place for rural preservation. There's a place for conservation lots. But when we start getting 7,500, that takes up probably 35,000-plus of acres that used to be farmland and orchards. That's 350 hundred-acre farms that we've lost in Frederick County to five-acre lots. Do we want to continue that? Do we want everything west of 81 to be five-acre lots? Or do we want to try to come up with some way to preserve apple orchards and farmland? You know, maybe the five-acre lots. Maybe it's time that we look at changing the size of that. Maybe a buy-right should be a minimum of 10 acres or 20 acres. Maybe for a five-acre lot, we ought to be able to have rezoning requirements. Right now, five-acre lots pay no proffers. Those five-acre lots we have right now in the county have caused us to build a school with no proffers. We provide the transportation, public service, and we get no proffers from them. So I think it's time that we start to do that. Thank you. And I think it's time that the Planning Commission and planning staff have a discussion on what we would like to recommend to the board. Or if, you know, maybe everything we have is perfect and we don't want to change anything. But I think at least we ought to have a macro discussion on what is our vision and what do we think we should do. I'd like to comment. I've raised my family in rural. And one of the reasons we have so many five-acre lots is because, as the county mentioned before, upping at the 10 or 20 acres, and farmers get their loans on the five-acre lot. So you greatly change their value. And they panic and they sell. So I do not want to mess with the farmers' loans and with them being able to survive as agriculture and even consider changing the lot size. The land for a farmer, that is their 401k. Right. I totally recognize that. But maybe we need to have a rezoning requirement that requires proffers. So if someone wants to subdivide a farm into five-acre lots, the subdivider has to pay proffers. Now, I don't think we should change the family subdivisions for family members. But I think it's time that we at least have a discussion on the five-acre lots. And we did this about 15 years ago or 20 years ago with a lot of the same pushback. But you need to invite the people that are trying to farm and continue to farm, that they don't want to retire and sell their land, how they can sustain and get their input, not just the people on this commission. And I would say this is probably a discussion for our kickoff meeting with the comp plan joint work session, Mr. Pearson. I don't know. We were talking about maybe doing that in December or January. But whenever we get to that joint session with the board, I think this is one of the topics Roger and I have discussed, that we really need to open that in the UDA. Do we want, you know, do we need to make adjustments to the UDA to accomplish the increased density? Yeah. The comprehensive plan update as a whole is a great time to work through some of those policy-oriented elements. And then when you're done and you've come to some sort of conclusion and have a consensus as to what that is, adopt your comprehensive plan. We can implement it through the Phase 2 of our zoning ordinance update. As you all know, we're working on Phase 1. But that's only like reorganization, functional changes. Everything stays the same, just putting it in the right places. Comp plan policy and then policy update to the zoning ordinance that tracks that comp plan policy update. And, yeah, we can unpack some of this stuff either at that next work session or along the way. If we want to get back into the habit of retreats again, those are also a great opportunity to do this. But we're open and available to help with anything that you all want to organize around that. So. Thank you. Okay. That's the end of our agenda. I will be glad to entertain a motion. So moved. Wait a minute. You're not going to let Ms. Kozell do it? No. My computer's not working tonight. So I couldn't read any of the numbers. I couldn't make any motions. Okay. We have a motion to adjourn. Second? Second. Any discussion? No. All in favor, aye. Aye. You guys be careful going home. Thank you. I'm trying to give them a break.
