Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2022-09-28
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=163
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Chair McCarthy. I stand and place the flag for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. The option of the agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the agenda as presented. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Citizen comments. Ms. Phillips, anyone sign up? We have two signed up. David Elby. David. Christina Scarborough. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. David. If we could have your name, Magisterial District, and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. Yes. My name is Christy Scarborough, and I'm in the Stonewall District. I'm here because you guys have a discussion on returning a portion of collected personal property funds to residents. I'm just here because I don't think that there should be a discussion. If you guys have taken too much of personal property tax, that it should automatically be distributed back out to the community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to included a part of an alternate item. I have aeremoth and Chris copy that I走 ing to really to talk about this a 30-minute Italian who works for prise worked in. Just for the record, it's a piece about tax security scores in Ontario, including tax premiums, so let's not getComment.ают�什麼 I know that ringing P style change, so that's what I just want to get to be done in case you feel like there's any issue that you want to touch on. Do you just have to go to that next slide? Have you guys listed the target to take debt havenما been to go milk change now? Yeah. of returning funds back to the residents that you represent that are due their money back thank you thank you that's all that we have signed up did anyone else want to speak to items that are not subject to public hearing mr. chairman I'm sorry we did have the first gentleman I called is now here yes sir we could have your name magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes or less please sir thank you I misunderstood when she called my name there hi I'm Dave Eddie I'm a resident of Middletown been there since 2007 after I retired from the army for 32 years and I wanted to address you all tonight in regards to the property tax it was just discussed first of all just a couple factoids that I'd like to share in 2021 for two cars and two motorcycles I paid Frederick County one thousand eight hundred and ninety nine dollars to own the property that I own due to the property tax increase this year I will be paying two thousand two hundred and thirty dollars for those same two cars in those same two motorcycles that historically depreciated by one year now like everybody else in here I'm going to assume that have obeyed the laws not paid my taxes on time and in full but now I question the seventeen point five percent increase in personal property taxes today we watch inflation devour our paycheck today we're witnessing increases in loans and in credit card interest due to the Federal Reserve hike rates today we see we feel the precipitous drop of our 401 plans that are for that we use for our own future planning for our financial future but yet this year we witnessed Frederick County you all this body here increase our property tax this is a time for the local for the state and local government to be able to do this we need to increase our property tax this is a time for the local for the state and for the federal levels to curb taxation for all fellow Americans and certainly the Virginians you know I could be wrong but I do not remember any public discussions or advertisements about raising property taxes for this county and if I am wrong then please excuse me but just because our federal government has lost the intestinal fortitude for debate I would submit to you the debate should and always be a priority for the government for the government governing bodies nearest to its citizens I would ask you all how well that this particular session this meeting tonight was advertised so that we the people who elected you could come here and address you lastly I just want to say that I wrote each and every one of you board members a letter back in April about my concern about the increase in the property tax unfortunately I only received a response from two individuals so I want to thank mr. Ludwig and I want to thank mr. Graber for doing so thank you all very much for the time thank you consent agenda how would the board like to handle the consent agenda mr. chairman I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented second and the second is there any discussion supervisor Ludwig supervisor slaughtered I supervisor Wells supervised McCarthy supervisor done by supervisor Graber I chair votes aye and the motion carries consent agenda is adopted what a supervisors comments are there any chairman yes sir thank you mr. chairman would like to simply address the two comments that have been made this evening by our speakers I appreciate both of them coming I know that there are several within my district who have reached out to me at community events over the last week who would mirror your comments and they have been very vocal with me regarding such I'd like to just go back a little bit in memory if we may when we discussed about personal property taxes when it was first brought up the numbers that I came to when we were in discussions were three dollars and 86 cents per hundred three dollars and 86 cents per hundred would have been a one dollar reduction from where we were at 486 and one of the highest in the local area for personal property taxes three dollars and 86 cents as we have seen as things have played out was actually a pretty close number this board settled on 423 because our commissioner of the revenue stated that that was a number that he had calculated that he thought was a neutral number in looking back at the numbers we see approximately 4.4 million dollars in additional revenue generated and that was a ballpark by our county administrator as he dove into the numbers to to get a true number if we were to go back and actually do the figures based upon what we now know that three dollars and 86 cents was actually very accurate it could be three dollars and 89 or three dollars and 83 depending on how you played the figures i think that it is imperative that this evening that we have a good and fruitful discussion on what rebate checks might look like for our residents who did truly over pay on their personal property taxes this past year thank you so very much other comments anyone yes sir supervisor ludwig i also am strongly in favor of returning the unexpected income the county received to taxpayers this is not money that the taxpayers had a say in raising there was no public hearing on an intent to increase personal property taxes this one push any button on those you're good okay thank you there was no public hearing on increasing personal property taxes and i want the both speakers to know that we did not vote to raise personal property taxes in fact we lowered the rates in anticipation of the jump in the assessed value in cars unfortunately we didn't lower it enough but nonetheless as a result you all saw higher personal property tax bills and uh we the county has that money despite not having had a stated public hearing on an intent to collect more money from you this is not the way we should be doing business i've heard from numerous constituents who are paying 500 more in taxes on a single vehicle than they paid for the same vehicle last year and many say that with the inflation ongoing right now that combination is a real hardship i remember Over last spring, many voters came here and voiced their displeasure at the increased tax bills they received. While again, we didn't vote to raise those taxes, I fully expect that we will be held accountable if we don't try and give people their money back. It's not even a matter of sacrifice to the county budget. The budget has enough money. It's taxpayer money that we had never planned to collect. I support providing a rebate of funds as discussed at our work session by the county administrator. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Yes. All right. We'll move forward to item number eight, which is county officials and is a discussion of returning a portion of collected personal property funds to the residents. MR. Mr. Chairman? CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Yes, sir. MR. I sent an email about a week ago asking that the county administrator present tonight the same paperwork that was presented to us as a board. In a work session here about two weeks ago, I thought that it was only fair that the community see the numbers in which the county administrator took a lot of time diligently compiling. So I feel that it's only appropriate that the citizens see this. I'm very thankful that Vice Chairman McCarthy and Supervisor Ludwig echoed my concerns to see these numbers, allow these numbers to be seen publicly. And I appreciate the county administrator being willing to do so and the chairman allowing this to be brought forward this evening. Thank you. MR. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. MR. Thank you. I appreciate your support. Thank you. MS. Yes, please, the first one. MR. Thank you. First of all, I want to say it's great to be here tonight. I'm glad I'm not where I was one year ago, up and down in Florida going through a hurricane. This is a nice relief. My friends down there are not in the same shape. This is the same presentation I gave at a workshop. I made a few adjustments to it and a little bit more information because subsequent to that date I found some more information. Thank you. When we initially did this during the budget time, this was the chart that was presented and our goal at budget time was to come up with a tax rate that would lower the personal property tax with the natural increase included in it. The board voted to lower the tax rate for personal property from $4.86 to $4.23. I included this chart last time. This was just to give you an idea of the difficulty in making many of these estimates as we're working with these items. There are several estimates and projections. It's not an easy thing to do. As you'll notice, the tax revenues you receive in one year come from two different NADA estimates or assessments. This item here shows you what our budget ... This comes from last year's financials. It shows you last year revenues, less expenses, which includes the money put into the capital fund, which left us a surplus last year of the $4.4 million. As you recall, the ordinance that the state passed stated that you had to have a surplus in the previous year in order to go forward if you wanted to do some sort of a rebate on property taxes. The $6 million was the number we projected or estimated to be what we would call natural growth in property taxes. This came up with this formula. In this year's budget, we have budgeted in the personal property taxes $78 million. That's $7.3 million. What I did is I subtracted out the previous year collections for personal property taxes, which gave us a difference of $10.6 million. From that, I subtracted out that $6 million, which was what our goal was for natural growth, which left an adjustment there of $4.6 million, which is a difference between what we estimated it to be and what it actually is. I've taken these two notes. I've put them up on the board for comparison, and I've added a third number. The first number up there is a previous year surplus based on the actual financials. The second number is the adjustment based on budget. It's that chart I just showed you on the previous slide. I put this third number up here because it'll be relevant a little later. This wasn't at the last meeting. What this is, the 1% of what our budget is this year. If for some reason the board were to go forward and approve any rebate or credit that exceeded the amount of $7.6 million, we would have to go forward and add that to the budget. That's $7.6 million. If the board was to go forward and approve any rebate or credit that exceeded the amount by $4.2 million, it would just require a public hearing. It will require an ordinance one way or another, but that's the magic number that kicks you into having a public hearing. These are the different options I provided at the last meeting at the workshop. The first option, and this is the most difficult, time-consuming, and logistically the most difficult for staff. That would be to actually determine the rebate. I put these in order of difficulty. The next one would actually be to create a credit for the December payment. As you know, the second half payments are due, I believe, December 6th. That's the second most difficult. The next one is probably the easiest one, and that's to increase the personal property tax relief in next year's budget. Another option for next year would just be to adjust the rate and evaluation next year. Finally, the last option is really to delete the rebate. These are common forms of rebate on elabors. If since we first redid this previously, I had already mentioned many, a lot of the Unger群's sendo thank you prior letter was to delete the rebate on the fall, and then up Olympics was the August financial year. But it would still require compensation to our robust budget, so I removed the rebate for July 19th. Thisth slave. Come on. Oh. Hey probably three ordinances and I'll explain all three of those then you would download the existing data which would have all the money which would have the information of what each vehicle was assessed you would apply a formula in that spreadsheet and the formula is and I'll show you in a chart in a second to explain it better but it would be the tax assessment on each vehicle divided by the total tax assessment multiplied by whatever number that rebate amount is that the board would choose and then what you would do is that number would be uploaded back into the system those dollar amounts will be put into a I think of there's a field that exists for a credit and then you those people receive a credit you would still end up milling some checks because some people may have moved out of the area or such so then you'd have to follow-up mill checks to anyone that had moved out of the area moved out of the county and if for some reason you can't locate and then you have to go through the process you they send you a file and then theisa independent would have to go over there and tell you or whatever theкон slipped and meet up with mixture Blood who 그걸 to at least report so the FTA process would see you for however many dollars before the tax Rider would have to go to the state demoscopen test scheduled for May 4th where that money would go to the state be held for them in those funds I'll test this laser and see how work just to show you this is a simple chart I made to give you an example these are all made up numbers so Robert Bioniak StateCard this car its assessment was two hundred dollars so these are all the vehicles that were and then I'll stop showing the screen for a few minutes So to come up with what the amount is for each car, your rebate would be 200 divided by 1450, multiplied by whatever amount you established that rebate to be. That would be the formula you would apply. I've looked at this and talked to a lot of staff. The state doesn't specify how you would have to do this if you move forward, so they left it up to all the different localities to come up with whatever formula they wanted. This is actually probably the easiest formula to apply. This is some of the key parameters. If this board decided to move in that direction, that would be important, that the staff would need to know ahead of time to move forward to create any ordinances if the board were to move in that direction. First of all, you'd have to establish a parameter of when you would establish that date, what items are on the book. Our recommendation is you would pick all the vehicles that would be on the books as of the June when you initially sent out the bill. I'm gonna point out that no matter which methodology you use there are gonna be some inequities in the system and there would be no way to fix all inequities without going into each data item and adjusting it, looking at it, and you're talking upwards of 110 thousand items. There will be some inequities. N even on that chart you may have some rounding errors at the end, but I think the rounding would be a minimal amount. The three ordinances would be required, one, the state would be required to have anywhere from one vehicle damaged as즁 an ordinance to authorize the rebate. Two, we don't think it's possible, a matter of fact, I'm certain it's not possible that you could get this done by the December 6th time because you would have to mail out these notices. So what you would want to do is you would want to change the date. I understand the county changed the date once before, so you would have an ordinance to change the date of when it was due and then you would also then change that would change the date of when you mailed out those bills to everybody. And then the third ordinance you would require is you'd have to appropriate those funds and if you go back that magic number of 4.2 million if it was that number or less I believe you don't it's not requiring a public hearing if it exceeded that it would require a public hearing. The other two, the first two both require public hearings. When we've looked at the time frame for advertising and such we believe if the board decided to move forward that the soonest you could do this would be at the October 26th date because a couple of these items require a seven day plus 14 day advertisement and such and I've had these discussions with the attorney so that's it would be almost impossible if not if possible to do that in the first meeting in October. The next item you would have to determine is actually which items in the personal property taxes would apply to. I gave you a list in there that comes from the system that shows you all the different categories. When we were working on this and looking at it we looked at I think we pulled out it was either four or five categories it was cars, small trucks, motorcycles, business cars, and business trucks. And the reason for that is because when you look at why that increased so much it was really increased because it was those items that actually increased so much in value. So those were the ones that probably directly caused it so it made the most logical sense to apply it to those items on there. We wanted to also do it in business because the issue is if you were to do this and this is just a recommendation if you were to do this to everyone that was not in business and you see a businessman saying wait a minute my tax values went up so much for my business vehicle why didn't I get a rebate. But once again this board it's a decision of this board to go through that chart decide which items would we want to include in this if we wanted to move forward with this. Yup and then I the other item down there is you you we have the real property that's going out in December also. It would be very difficult logistically extremely difficult for our department to try and do the real property December 6 and then follow it up and try and do an extended date in January for personal property. So after discussions with the Treasury if the board were to move this direction their recommendation would be to move the dates for both of them. for them so they're done at the same time. There are some items and this issue is probably the wrong way to describe this. These are just some of the perhaps consequences. If you were to do this you will actually then be set you would be sending out tax bills in January. In March you send out the supplementary tax bills and then you'll be followed up again doing your tax bills in June for the next year. For the second mail out because the way our system is we would not be able to actually program the bills where you might see a line item on there it says actual credit. So the credit would be in there but it would already be totaled in that total amount when you receive the invoice. And the other this is the other part logistically that's probably one of the most complicated parts is is a Commissioner of Revenue rolls over all their files in the very beginning of January that enables them to move into the next year to do the licenses and such but it'd be from the Treasury's office they would prefer a later date in January to give them enough time to get all these processes done to move forward. So picking that date in January is very tricky I know from the obviously the Commissioner of Revenue the closer to January one the better and for the Treasury's office the closer the end of January the better so but you would have to pick a date obviously because we have to put a date in the ordinance. And that is it short and sweet but there's several people here to help me out with questions and I'll try and answer what I can. The different types of advising heavens are not updated. I let go of this again and so you better believe you could possibly do that but you could probably accomplish the same task by putting those funds in the personal property tax relief since you already have that mechanism in place. So it would accomplish that task. Thank you. that same task of moving it to June. So it's better to do it previously than to wait until June? No, actually, I would get it in June. It would just be a different mechanism. Instead of actually doing the credit in June, you would put it in the PPT property tax relief. Okay. So it would shift it to June, but instead of using the credit, it would utilize that mechanism. But you could also create a credit in June, too. Thank you. Both would work. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ballhofer, you had shown sort of the magic number, the $4,259,056 that is under the threshold, the 1% threshold. Yes, that would actually... That would keep us from having to have a public hearing. Is that what you were saying? It would keep you from having to have one public hearing, the one on the actual budget appropriation. You would still have to have the other two. How much time would that save us if we went that route versus having to go the full public hearing route? On the time frame, actually, we'd have it the same night, so it's not really a time. So it wouldn't save us any time. Correct. Okay. And then with regard to the ordinances, can they all be adopted, all three adopted on the same night, or I'm seeing the attorney shaking his head. Okay, thank you. Yes. Yes. Okay. All right. Thank you. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ballhofer, quick question. You stated it would take three ordinances. We would likely need to move by the second meeting in October. Does the time frame from now to then, allow staff the time to prepare those three ordinances, if we would so move that tonight and have everything prepared to go by the second meeting in October? I met with the attorney, and we believe it's possible, yes. Fantastic. One other thing. I did some calculations this evening before I came in. I'm looking at the number of folks, 85,000 folks in Frederick County and that kind of thing, and $4 million. I'm looking at 40, I'm saying 40, 50 bucks would be an average. Would I be close when I'm saying that? For a refund, an average refund, someone would be looking for a rebate on their, you know, take off of this on what I'm going to have to pay again? I played with some numbers, and what I did was, and I assumed how many different data items there were, you know, how many cars. So if you took, let's just say you used the $4.6 million as your magic numbers of rebate, and there was 115,000, it'd be approximately $42. If there was 100,000, that's if every vehicle was the exact same value. I understand. And if there was 100,000, it'd be 46. And if there was 90,000, it'd be $51. I will say, just for curiosity, I looked at the most expensive vehicle, and just in case you didn't know, it's a $220,000. Porsche. And their rebate for the most expensive would be 570. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Mr. President. A couple questions. We've talked about figures around $4 million so far tonight, but I want to know how well that drives us toward this revenue-neutral calculation we've been trying to do over the summer. Well, when you go back to the one chart, let's see. By using these numbers, remember the 78 is budgeted, so it could change. It could go up or down, so we don't actually know what the actual will be. But if you go by that chart, the 4.6 would get you to that point based on the budgeted revenue. And a few more questions, if I may. Yes, sir. What happens to people who sold cars after they paid their June property tax? Would they get a check mailed to them, or would that credit perhaps be easier to apply to another vehicle they own? And that's where I was stating there would be some inequities. It's going to be very difficult, because what will happen is there are some people may be, for lack of a better explanation, unjustly enriched. To keep the process simple, you do the big download into a spreadsheet. So there may be someone on there that was on there at the time and sold the vehicle, and they would get the rebate. And someone later, later, the time frame may not. So there will be a small percentage that may be unjustly enriched, or someone that bought the vehicle late may not get a rebate. So that's why that rebate will go to everybody that was assessed on that bill in that month of June. And then another question. What would happen for vehicles that actually did go down in their tax assessment? Would they have a higher bill if you apply the formula that way? Because it's a negative, it's a negative change. There were some vehicles, if they were older and had a couple hundred thousand miles on them, I know I own one, that actually did go down in the tax assessment. And no, that won't happen because the actual rebate's not going to be based on if it's increased or decreased. The rebate will be based on a ratio of what your tax was billed. So if you were billed any tax, your rebate will be calculated, and it's not going to be based on that. So in that case, I'd get a rebate as well. But that might be appropriate if it didn't go down as much as it would in a normal year, I guess. Right, and the idea is, this is trying to mimic what would have happened if the tax rate would have been less. So even if your value would have been down, if your tax rate would have been less, you would have still paid less. So by using this formula, I think it comes close to approximating a lower tax rate. And I guess one comment that might be a question, and then I'll be finished, Mr. Chairman. The, we talked about how soon we could credit the personal property tax relief. And I'm in favor of doing it sooner, even if we don't meet the December, which would be ideal. I think there could be a number of situations where that would be helpful to people, even if they're not gonna be able to advantage that rebate until June. What about the people, for example, that are delinquent through no fault of their own? They've had trouble paying the tax bill. I would think that lowering their debt would lower any interest and penalties also. Or is that a bit hard to? We haven't explored that item yet. I was gonna go until I tripped you up. But it's a good question. I can't give you an answer on that. All right, thank you. Yes, sir. Mr. Browser, done. Just so you know, so all of you know, Comcast is having some problems. So we're able to hear this, but there are people that can't see it. You have two gentlemen, and one gentleman has, your Porsche guy, you know, a increase of $1,000, made up number. Another person has an increase of only $100. In this formula, with the person getting the $1,000 increase, would he get much more of that? In other words, Mr. Wells had talked about $40 as an average. So it would be proportionate to the amount of the increase. So those that were more overcharged, as the gentleman had talked about 17% previously, would he get a bigger increase than somebody who only had a 2% increase? No, because the ratio is based on what the actual vehicle was assessed for. So people would be given their check back based on what their assessment was on each vehicle. And the idea, once again, behind that is, that approximate more of what would happen with a tax rate. But the assessed price affects the tax that was paid. So we lowered the tax from 46 to 423, and then you had the assessment. So if you have the, if the item is the percentage of the assessment, a larger assessment would give you a large rebate. What am I missing then? No, you're correct on that. It's just a different way of looking at it. Yes, it's built into what that assessed value is, correct. My argument was it's not trying to go in there and just give everyone a credit based on what the increase was. But yes, you are correct. I apologize. So therefore, those that had a higher increase would get a higher credit or rebate, and those that had a lower increase. Is that correct? In some respects, it all depends on how much higher it was and what the total value of their vehicle, for instance, the person with the super expensive vehicle, if it just went up 1%, they'd still get a bigger rebate because they paid a lot more tax initially. Mr. Grovers? Sorry. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just wanted to get a little direction from you, Mr. Balhofer. What would you need from us tonight if we desired to proceed? Do you, would you need a formal motion? Would you just simply need a majority of the Board direction? What would you need in order to proceed with this this evening? I think first, what we would need is the Board's direction to staff to go ahead and draft three ordinances. I think it's also absolutely necessary for the three ordinances to understand some of the parameters. What would be the value of the rebate? What date to use to establish that time to determine the time frame? As you notice, we put in there June. I have it written down. And then you would also, what's be critical is to determine which categories, because if you were to do this, those would have to be specified in there because I forget you have a list, there are several categories in there. You know, from what we looked at, the ones that seem most logical were the five categories. That would have to also be put in the ordinance. And there's a lot of moving parts in this. And we may have missed something. So there may be some other small items we'd have to find out in the journey where we'd have to put them in the ordinance and then have to have a meeting or the next meeting in October. Mr. McArthur. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bolthoff, just for clarity's sake, coming off of Supervisor Dunn's comments, doing what you've suggested would be akin to basically saying we're assessing this at, you know, at, you know, at the end of the year. We're assessing this at the end of the year. We're assessing this at the end of the year. And we're looking at the rate of $390 versus $423. So everyone's paying the same rate and they're getting the same rate returned to them. It's just that some people have a higher value, so they're paying more in taxes total. So it's gonna be proportionate based on what that rate would have worked out to be if you refund the total dollars. Would that be accurate? That's absolutely correct. And that's a better way of explaining it than I did. Thank you. No, I appreciate that. So the dollar amount would be different. The percentage would stay the same, but the dollar amount would be different? Exactly. Okay. Yes, sir. Supervisor Wells. Thank you very much. And just a clarification. I know, thank you for the speakers who came up. When this issue arose, the board, we had work sessions, we talked about it, we met with the commissioner. And I think from the very beginning, we all realized that this was very new territory with the increases and so forth. And we discussed some kind of a rebate or a refund being necessary as we went along. So it's not new to me. And then we had several other, we had two other work sessions, just one recently where we were talking about doing this. So I've always been in favor of taking a look at it. And I think it's the right thing to do. I'm just trying to figure out the best way to do it time-wise. So maybe a work session, if there's a lot of things that we need to look at, maybe another work session that we could discuss. Okay. If that's all the things you're talking about, if that's necessary, I'm certainly willing to do that. Mr. Chairman. We are trying to accomplish that this evening. Is that where we want to be this evening? Okay, that's fine. It's a consensus discussion, Supervisor McCarthy. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion that we direct county staff to proceed with the proposed scheme that was in the notes that you've just presented with June 6th being the date of the the rolls that we'll use for the cars that would be applicable. That I would recommend January 6th as the date for the tax date to be moved to. That gives a little bit more time to the treasurer, maybe not nearly as much time as he would like, but it also helps the commissioner with his rollover and include all of the vehicles that you have there in the list, categories one, two, three, 21 and 22. That we try to set this for whatever public hearing, notices, other advertisements that need to be made for the earliest possible meeting. In the meantime, Bob, if there needs to be more discussion, I'm happy to join you in any discussion that we may need to have in the meantime. But I think we need to get the ball rolling on this. The sooner we can get this done, the better the citizens have waited this long. And I think they need this relief. It's been a hardship for the citizens this past June. It's gonna be an even greater hardship at Christmas for them to have to go through the same thing all over again. We will address it again, hopefully by lowering this rate, going into the new year and the new budget. But I think if we can get the ball rolling tonight and direct the county staff to do that, I would make a motion to do so. Okay. And a second. Are you okay with the motion, Ms. Phillips? Yes. Thank you. One other item to amend my motion. And the amount of the tax refund to be $4,637,218. That's the magic number I assumed. Second concur. Second concur. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Discussion. I'm just gonna put a number in there and I was gonna go ahead and say it. I'm gonna make a amendment to the motion that was already made, so I appreciate it. If I could. Sir? If I could add just one item. After a debate between the Commissioner of Revenue and the treasurer when they were looking at those dates, for them the best compromise date was more as of January 15th, because the treasury would have preferred later at 25th, and obviously the others would have been much earlier, but 15th seemed to be the closest to a compromise date we could find. I'm happy to amend my motion to January 15th. That is the new taxation date for both real estate and personal property. I would. Second concurs. Concurs. All right. Any further discussion? Question for the County Administrator. The magic number we picked is, I believe, triggers a public hearing. Is that, I don't care about that. I think the public should have a say. So that's in no way negative. However, does that delay our schedule at all to have to do a public hearing? No. Okay, thank you. All right. Discussion? So, Mr. McCarthy, does this include, then, a public hearing on the first meeting in October, which I think we have to do, or not? The ordinances, my understanding is the ordinances would come to us for review in October. The second meeting, is that the earliest we can get them? It would come for adoption at that meeting. So would there be a public hearing at that meeting? Yes. Okay. So, Mr. McCarthy, I think we have a public hearing. I think we have a public hearing. At that meeting? Yes. So the public hearing would be at the second meeting in October? So there's no public meeting, no public hearing in the first meeting in October. So in the second meeting in October, we would have a public hearing, and then a vote on an ordinance and a change, and essentially we would address this whole issue in one meeting. Is that correct? Correct. That's the ordinary ordinance process. Thank you. All right. Is there any further discussion? So bear with me. Go ahead, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to convey my appreciation to my remaining board members for, A, allowing me to put this on the agenda this evening, B, for doing their homework, coming prepared this evening to discuss it, and C, for bringing together an item that I really believe will benefit our taxpayers over the long term. Thank you to each of you very much. All right. Further discussion? So bear with me. We have two amendments and the main motion. So this is going to be the vote for the third amendment. Mr. Chairman. I think the second accepted the amendments. They did? They did. That gets us back to the original amended motion. Thank you, sir. That's very helpful. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Schlatter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. We thank you, sir. You're welcome. Thank you, Mike. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right. Appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. This is information for our citizens. We are looking for we have one vacancy on the Agricultural District Advisory Committee. We have two vacancies on the Conservation Easement Authority, the Historic Resources Advisory Board, Redbud, continuing vacancy. Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Board. One vacancy. If anyone has any interest in serving on these committees and boards, please contact the administration. That will bring us to committee business. Finance Committee. Supervisor Schlatter? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. The Finance Committee met on Wednesday, September 21st at 8 a.m. Item number one on the agenda, the solid waste manager requested general fund supplemental appropriations. Special video is available with total support. Wait for the counselingreturn, you'll now be able to send out aσι biabe. B 통. Won't need. Some time. I do. Works Director requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $34,070. This amount represents a carry-forward of unspent fiscal year funds for the Gore $31,884 and Steveson $2,186 convenience centers. This item has been approved by the Public Works Committee. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion is second. Any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Schlatter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Grape. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number three, the Public Works Director requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $20,406.22. This amount represents Fleming Trust funds unspent in fiscal year 22 and additional funds for fiscal year 23, $20,000. This is added for the upper expenses and can be please told by my colleagues at the Apartment Nomination program at the Right Side of this actors building at 1-535 in Upstate shore. I invite the Assembly to vote. All right. My department staff will once again take the 하 Joe Durf ahhSimple to support the proposed budget change target. Just so everyone is informed, let me make a single note. Hi everyone. I'm Joe Durst. I'm an MP from the HB. Hi. And, Dr. VanC gawken. Hi. Hi. in the amount of $157.12. This amount represents unspent fiscal year 22 restitution funds to be used for health services. No local funds are required. This item has been approved by the Public Works Committee, and I would so move. Second. Motion is second. Any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McCartney? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number five, the Public Works Director requests a landfill fund supplemental appropriation not to exceed $3,129,269. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year 22 funds for ongoing projects at the landfill. This item has been approved by the Public Works Committee. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Is there any discussion? Any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCartney? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number six, the Public Works Director requests a Shawnee Land Fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $374,740. This amount represents unspent fiscal year 22 funds to be used for the completion of the Lake Sinkhole Remediation. The outlook for the fire issue. The official agreement we have reserved for 2018Show introduce minutes for the refreshed vehicle maintenance project 돌�d and internal. The item is thejatioies to provide sufficient maternity. yogҁ stop creating traffic issues and other safety issues and they would like to have further discussion on the matter and i would agree with their thoughts i would like to see us separate the lake sinkhole remediation from the extension of the maple trail bus stop i believe the remediation of the lake sinkhole does need to move forward and i would simply like to postpone action on this until our next meeting if possible action on either you want to postpone yes sir well i would prefer just the maple trail bus stop project so if we wanted to allocate funds or funding towards the remediation of the sinkhole we could do so how would i need to word that i guess mr chairman we'd need a figure help me rod i'm sorry miss michelle maybe you have one do you just want to do the the remediation i think it was 150 000 so mr chairman i'd like the sinkhole the remediation of the sinkhole project was 150 000 that's correct okay that's what that's what uh mr uh walter has on his memo he's here if you have any additional questions i just won't be sure it's correct the remediation on the sinkhole is 150 approximately okay so i would accept a motion to amend yes i would accept a motion to amend yes i would accept a motion to amend yes i would accept a motion to amend did you have anything to add you have anything to add maybe some more question i think reading in the survey did you learn something which is kind of lodge well that'd be wake up calls if you did have somebody until you went why So doing the math, you're saying that the maple tree expansion would then be $220,000 approximately? And there were several numbers in there. There was also purchases of equipment, and those amounts weren't identified. Okay. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That will carry us to... Mr. Chairman, I think we need a motion to postpone the discussion on the maple bus stop, which I would make if that's necessary. Thank you, sir. All right. Is there a second? Motion is to postpone the bus stop. Second. And a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Thank you, gentlemen. It will take us to G7. Item number seven. The Parks and Recreation Director requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $150,311. This amount represents a carry-forward of unspent fiscal year funds for the old Charlestown Road park design. A master plan will be presented to the Board of Supervisors at a later date. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion is to postpone the bus stop. Second. Any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number eight. The Parks and Recreation Director requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $12,460. This amount represents a carry-forward of unspent fiscal year proffer funds for the Abrams Creek Trailhead and Parking Designers. The Board of Supervisors recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion is to postpone the bus stop. The Board of Supervisors recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Any discussion? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number nine. The Parks and Recreation Director requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $30,774. This amount represents a carry-forward of unspent fiscal year 22 projects for the old year 22 proffer funds for the Clearbrook Park Pickleball Courts. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Second. Any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. No. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number ten. The Parks and Recreation Director requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $579,473. This amount represents a carry-forward of unspent fiscal year 22 proffer funds for the Clearbrook Park Pickleball Courts. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Any discussion? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number ten. The Parks and Recreation Director requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $473,000 for the Clearbrook Park Pickleball Courts. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Any discussion? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McArthur. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number eleven. The Sheriff requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $132,328. This amount represents a carry-forward of unspent fiscal year 22 funds for vehicles. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McArthur." erschante unnecessary McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number 13, the Sheriff requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $12,192. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year funds to be used for SRO rifles. The Finance Committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Second. Any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McArthur. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number 14, the Sheriff requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $10,687. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year funds budgeted for office supplies and equipment to be used for 10 new tasers. The Committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Question is second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McArthur. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number 15, the Sheriff requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $3,724.24. This amount represents an automobile insurance claim reimbursement to be used for vehicle repair costs. No local funds. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Second. Any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McArthur. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number 16, the Fire Chief requests a capital fund transfer not to exceed $109,090.91, which is the local portion, and a general fund supplemental appropriation. Item number 17, the Sheriff requests a general fund supplemental appropriation not to exceed $90,909.09, which is the grant portion. These amounts represent costs for the installation of a direct capture exhaust removal system at Millbrook Fire and Rescue Station. Approval to accept the FEMA Fire Act grant award for a portion of the cost is also being requested. The Finance Committee recommended approval and I would so move. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I'd like to say thank you to the fire department for going after this grant. The equipment that is being proposed here will help reduce cancer among our firefighters, which is much more inherently likely in firemen due to their line of work. So I think it is imperative that we do this. I also think that this needs to lead to a discussion, however, by this board on how we are appropriating our revenue recovery funds. When this all started, the money was distributed. on a 50-50 basis. However, we own this building and another building now that we did not own, and I think the money needs to be looked at to provide other health and safety initiatives for our firemen, and I think we need to have that discussion sooner than later, and I plan to put forth a proposal addressing such at our next meeting. However, I fully support this as presented. Thank you. Further discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number 17, the finance director requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $2,974.07. This amount represents unspent VJCCA funds. I hope I used enough C's there, Cheryl, right? That's good. VJCCCA funds in fiscal year 2022 that must be returned to the state. No local funds are required. The finance committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Motion is second. Any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. The last item on the finance committee agenda is the finance director request a public hearing for a general fund and county capital fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $2,974.7. What is your opinion about that? The general fund is $4,000—excuse me—24.9 million. In light of the action that was taken this evening, we probably should net that amount out. Right. This amount will be reduced by the 4.6, and also we tried to estimate what comes out of fund balance with this agenda so any differences will change it for the public hearing. Okay. So Cheryl, we should advertise in the public hearing for 20 million .3? Yeah. The recommendation is to advertise it, so we'll get the exact number to the board for the public hearing, as long as everyone agrees that that's the approach that we're taking. Okay, so the motion then will be for the $24.9 million then, correct? The motion will be to advertise for a public hearing to transfer the amounts that are greater than 20% to the capital fund. Very well. So that is the motion. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. And a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCartney? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludman? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Thank you. And that concludes the Finance Committee report. Thank you. All right. That'll bring us to Public Planning Commission Business, Public Hearing, Rezoning 0622. Mr. Stein. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is... Rezoning Application 0622 for the Tasker Warrior Properties LLC. This is a proposed rezoning application to modify the proffer statement approved with Rezoning 0418, known as the Tasker Road and Warrior Drive Commercial Properties Project that was approved by this body in February of 2019. Specifically, the amendment in their proposal would amend the hours of operation to allow for the installation of a 24-hour ATM and ITM machine in conjunction with the buy-write development of a 4-hour ATM. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. and pharmacy. Again, the proposed proffer statement would amend the hours of operation, but doesn't have any effect on the other proffers. Those would continue to remain in effect and dictate the development of this property. It remains in conformance with our comprehensive plan, which envisions this area of the county to be used for business uses. And the Planning Commission recommended approval of this rezoning on September the 7th, and this item is presented to you all this evening as a public hearing item, and following that public hearing, staff would be seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on this proposed rezoning for a proffer amendment. David Frank with Pannoni Associates is here this evening representing the property owners, and he is happy to answer any questions as is staff. Thank you. Questions of Mr. Klein? Supervisor McArthur. Thank you, Mr. Stein, just for clarity. So the 24 hours would only apply to the ATM itself and not to any other auxiliary business operations on the property, is that correct? Correct, it would only be in association with an ATM. So the ATM machine, all other business B2 allowed uses still require that 11 p.m. to 6 a.m. prohibition against access and disclosure. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Seeing none, thank you, sir. The applicant have anything they'd like to add? Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Can anyone sign up? Ms. Phillips. No, sir. Is there anyone who would like to speak to this proposed rezoning? Anyone? Seeing none, this is Shaun E. Supervisor Ludden. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the clarification. When I had a number of constituents concerned that business would be operating 24 hours, I had to respond to quite a few people that it only applied to the ATM operation and was gonna ask the same question. So with that said, I move to approve the rezoning, that this is the first time that I've ever heard of it. So thank you for your kind attention. 06 22 of Tasker Warrior Properties LLC as stated and a second is there any discussion anyone supervisor Ludwig aye supervisor slaughtered aye supervisor well I supervise McCarthy supervisor done I supervisor Graber I chair votes aye and a motion carries thank you sir bring us to an ordinance amendment Frederick County code Thank You mr. chairman this is a ordinance amendment to chapter 165 of your zoning ordinance that short-term lodging to the definition section and provide some additional regulations for short-term lodging as a use it would be added to the RA or rural areas district RP residential performance and mh1 mobile home community zoning districts as proposed we'd like to note that added to the zoning ordinance is that the zoning ordinance is not a part of the zoning ordinance as proposed we'd like to note that added short-term lodging would be permitted in all residential dwelling types including single-family detached townhomes apartments duplexes and mobile homes however structures such as tents recreational vehicles and campers and other types of structures that don't meet our building code definition of a dwelling and in turn couldn't get a certificate occupancy from the building inspections department would not qualify to be operated as short-term lodging units the Board of Supervisors sent two options forward for public hearing and I'll briefly review those for you tonight as well as some of the additional regulations for the specific use scenario a would be allowing short-term lodging by right for dwellings in those zoning districts previously mentioned with an administrative permit issued by the Department of Planning and Development scenario B would modify that slightly and if the property is located in the RA zoning district and is only accessible from a private roadway and not having direct access to a state roadway they would be required to receive a conditional use permit in order to operate a short-term lodging operation these Forms do Londt crossed street coverage as proposed you know we certainlyasha county would by definition have theρί basic條 is this style ofaux is assigned as part of a mobile home or part of the rmo home for a period at 30 days or less. And just to i'm sure you see this a couple of times now but i'll quickly review some of the additional regulations that we're proposing and that we would regulate as part of the administrative permit process so maximum number of lodgers per night not to exceed 10 unrelated persons no more than five guest rooms permitted for short term lodging setting a maximum number of for heleoults and other sudah room related percent ложegn set mean to be not may be audited in AprilAfter each month as sudden resolution for public repair and conduct number of a singular rental contract per night and that all lodgers in the short-term lodging operation need to be associated with that same rental contract the dwellings and manufactured homes for short-term lodging need to comply with the following standards and you'd be available for inspection at reasonable hours to ensure safety is appropriate in all aspects to have minimum safety requirements as relates to fire safety and fire extinguishers smoke detectors and carbon monoxide as applicable to have a plan posted in each of the sleeping room showing an exit pathway from the sleeping room so that the guests know how to get out in the event of an incident and then this was an increase from your previous proposal but to have two designated off-street parking spaces available for lodgers which the operator has the authority to reserve for those guests last couple special events and you all are familiar with our special event facility that get conditional use permits on a regular basis would be prohibited in association with a short-term lodging use issued under an administrative permit however to be clear if somebody had a special event facility conditional use permit that would not prevent them from then getting an administrative permit to also have short-term lodging operations on their property they just could not do with special events with just the administrative permit no short-term lodging activities to take place on the property until we have issued a permit and the operator has the authority to reserve for that permit if you have no other has a business license with Commissioner of Revenue. And then item G there just explains what scenario B would look like if adopted, that in the RA zoning district and accessed through a private driveway requires a conditional use permit for approval. We did a quick mapping exercise. I know a lot of the discussion has centered around whether or not these operations are serviced by private or public streets. And so to visualize the ones we're aware of right now and have addresses for, in teal we have eight that are accessed by private streets in the RA zoning district, and then in orange the remaining 15 that are from state-maintained roads. Having explored some software packages for monitoring short-term lodging, I feel confident in saying that what we know about currently is probably only half of what's operating out there right now, and we're in the 30 range for our lists. So I would expect there's at least 60. And one of the providers that does the tracking software expects up to 80 or 90 that are operating currently in Frederick County. This item was presented to your planning commission on September 7th for a public hearing. The planning commission had two tie votes on both scenario A and B and failed to offer a recommendation to the board. It is presented tonight for a public hearing, and staff is seeking action from the Board of Supervisors on this proposed ordinance amendment and whether or not scenario A or B would be the appropriate path forward. I'd be happy to answer any questions you all might have. Question. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Appreciate your efforts in this. I know it has been a long, drawn-out process for you, and I appreciate the efforts put forth. The one question that I had, and I see them under both scenarios, is under A, it says the maximum number of lodgers per night shall not exceed 10 interrelated persons. Is there anything built into this to assure that it doesn't meet the maximum number that the health department allows? If you get a septic system approved, it's normally for, say, a three-bedroom home is for six people. Is there anything to limit it to the number that it's approved under the health regulations? How does that tie together, and can you explain that to me? Yeah, absolutely. As part of the administrative permit process, our intention is to ensure that the building inspectors and all other relevant agencies have the opportunity to evaluate the operation. So one of the main focuses for that is going to be ensuring that they all have a certificate of occupancy, and in turn, there's going to be a number of bedrooms assigned that correlates to the existing septic system. And so that would be the catch-all for that. There is the possibility for abuse. With people sleeping in hallways or otherwise, but that exists now in any sort of residential setting. Well, that follows right into my next question for you. Is there any way to enforce that? I mean, is there any way to enforce if someone runs the property and they have 20 people staying there because it's a wedding event or other items, is there any way that the county has presently with either scenario that could help that process to be maintained? Absolutely. Our department has in the past enforced over-occupancy situations and would continue to on a complaint-driven basis. The primary reason for having the section that makes it accessible during reasonable hours for inspection is to ensure that we have that ability to come out and check if a complaint is received, that there's reason to believe that there is an issue there. If we do pursue a software package to help with enforcement, one of the helpful things that they provide on that back-end data is how many people that they're being rented to through the Airbnb database and otherwise, and that would also be helpful. So, we're going to have to be very careful about that. Thank you. Yes, sir. Further questions? Mr. Pearson. Supervisor Dunn. So, the permit process would be two years as an arbitrary number that your department wants to set. Is that correct? That's correct, sir. Okay. Thank you. Anyone else? Further questions? Mr. Pearson. Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? Ms. Phillips. Yes, sir. Leslie Shottroff. Welcome. Hello. We're back. If you would, pull that microphone down. Okay. There you go. Thank you. Before the meeting this evening, I handed out three petitions. One from most of the residents on Wayne's Lane that are opposed to the STL using our privately owned gravel driveway. The other two petitions are signed by the people that live on Salem Church Road. A few of the signatures are from people that know our situation with the driveway. Our issue is not with STLs running a business. It's with our privately owned gravel driveway. And one of the facts being the speed limit, which is 15 miles an hour, and the dust that we have to put up with. We're getting tired of the nonsense. The STL owners are not there when their guests are renting out their home. They are living in their new home. The STL owner stated at the last public hearing how he came to all the residents. Before operating to get our input on the business running. He did not come to my brother and sister-in-law. Yes, we have hollered at several people to slow down in our driveway. We have people that are coming anywhere from 15 to 25 miles an hour. No, I'm not an officer. I don't have one of them little speed things, you know, so I can track them. But it's happening. The STLs. The STL owner agrees that there are speed limit signs, but said they're not written in stone. It's common sense and out of consideration and respect for the safety of all the residents that live here. We live by that rule. Yes, when he brought the home at 242 Wayne's Lane, he was granted permission to use the driveway as a resident, not to run an STL business and bring in total strangers. We have two options before the board. Scenario A, by right, the landowner can do what they want. I don't see that being a good option. The owner of the STL is a real estate agent. When he sold the home at the beginning of Wayne's Lane and Salem Church Road, he came to several of the residents and asked them to sign a waiver allowing the new homeowner to use part of our driveway to access his barns. Why shouldn't the STL owner? Not have to get certified written permission and agreement from the owner of the driveway and all the residents to use our driveway to run his STL. Please vote scenario B with the cup stating when an STL wants to operate, they must have direct access and egress from a state maintained road, not a privately owned driveway. If the county is going to grant this STL owner the right to operate through our privately owned, and maintain driveway, the STL owner must widen and pave the driveway so that two vehicles can pass safely or open the old driveway called Old Plantation Lane that would lead right up to their front door and leave our driveway up to the rest of us. Thank you. Thank you. Suitcase. Welcome. Hello. Raise the, just a little, thank you. My name is Suitcase and I live in the Opaquen District on Waynes Lane. I am not opposed to STLs as long as they do not impact the neighbors and have no impact on how the STL is accessed. But in my case, my drive, my private lane is impacted by vehicle traffic and some neighbors are inconvenienced by that traffic and excessive dust. Most STL guests come in at their arrival time and go in and out several times during their stay. We put up speed limit signs ourselves because this is not a state maintained road. Some STL guests ignore the signs even after being informed by the STL owner creating an unsafe situation. We have no idea how else to police this. I myself had a close call because an STL guest driving way too fast almost hit me head first. I had to call the police. I had to call the police. I had to call the police and the police almost hit me head on speeding around a blind spot turn. So obviously, even if guests are given information on how to drive on a one-lane driveway, some will choose not to listen. Guests don't know what to do when they approach another vehicle. So it's always the residents that back up or pull over and this is very frustrating when it happens time and time again. The Shaw-Choughs and myself have been at every board, every meeting pertaining to STLs. We are not by any means the only ones that oppose the STL using our driveway. But at the September 7th Planning Commission meeting, a picture was painted that the Shawtroughs and myself are the only ones that oppose, and that is not correct. All residents on our lane but one are full-time residents. That family has another home in another state where they live more often than here. Once again, at the September 7th meeting, the STL owner stated that the family has no problems with the guest traffic. Well, they aren't here enough to even be bothered or impacted by the cars coming and going, and their house is at the beginning of the lane, so they certainly aren't getting the brunt of the dust. The STL owner on our lane has moved away. He has no idea how his STL has impacted the residents still living there. He doesn't see the speeding cars. He doesn't see the dust literally flying across to the property owner's properties. I have a scenario that most certainly could occur. As we know, Frederick County is allowing STLs to have 10 guests. Can you imagine if those 10 guests brought their own cars? That would have a huge impact on this one-lane road. And we have seen five cars. There are two includes, as it appears that we are at the STL at one booking, and that's too many for our driveway. These people aren't even residents. I do not support scenario A. We do not live in a buy-write world. Some people will do whatever they want to do. I support B. As long as there's written permission by sharing parties, private driveways need to be two lanes, and those two lanes need to be paved. That being said, I feel that. STL properties had to be accessed from a state-maintained road, then all the private driveway issues would be eliminated. Thank you. Thank you. Jeremy Engel. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Hi, I'm Jeremy Engel from the Bat Creek District. Thank you for your service. You have a difficult job ahead of you today. I'm a U.S. veteran, first-generation college graduate who studied business and economics. I'm a small business owner of a home inspection business, and I own an STR here in Frederick County in the Bat Creek District. I come from a low-income family, working hard, making sacrifices along the way. And what I have, making sacrifices today along the way, I have inspired numerous people to join the military, buy a home, start a business, and come to this very meeting. You two are sacrificing and inspiring others by serving your community. Your service is important, and you're responsible for making land-use decisions that benefit county residents and allow properties to be used for their highest and best use. The existing 212 STRs, or STLs, bring the county more than $35 million annually. That's enough to support 600 local jobs at $60,000 a year each. STRs support local jobs. They create jobs for local shops, restaurants, and events. They create jobs for cleaners, bookkeepers, accountants, property managers, and more. Before purchasing the property, I researched the covenants, the restrictions, and the ordinances to make sure I was not violating any laws before making this large investment. Option B exclusively and unfairly discriminates against short-term rentals, violating our 14th Amendment rights to equal protections under the law, while allowing other businesses to continue to operate. Option C only applies to those who are not eligible to operate on private roads. There are many laws and ordinances already in place for noise, occupancy, fire, and more that protect neighbors and guests, and anyone can report those offenses currently to the appropriate agencies. Neighbors are safer because every guest that stays in our Airbnb gets a background check to include the host. Those with records are denied. With certain records are denied. Neighbors are not afforded those same protections. Should a criminal... should a criminal buy or rent in their community. Some argue STRs are creating increased home prices. I believe business regulations that are unfair and unfriendly to investors and developers are the reason for the low supply, causing the high prices. Many STRs were once neglected properties that didn't conform traditional lending options, sitting vacant until local investors purchased them. Just this week, I withdrew an offer here in Fairfax County, New Jersey, to buy a home in Fairfax County, New Jersey. I withdrew an offer here in Fairfax County, New Jersey, to buy a home in Fairfax County, New Jersey. I withdrew an offer here in Fairfax County, New Jersey, to buy a home in Fairfax County, New Jersey. I withdrew an offer here in Frederick County on a historic multifamily building that has plagued our area for many years. The deal fell through because I wanted to make this property an STR, STL, but unfriendly ordinances prevented me from restoring this beautiful historic home. Now it will continue to sit, being vacant, being a hazard, and being an eyesore, and devaluing the properties that surround it, while not generating the tax revenue or preserving history. And closing... And closing... I want you to think of the memories you have had with your families at the beach. As those families that live at the beach, they come to the mountains. Do not rob and deny those families the same opportunities to make memories with their families in the mountains when they welcome our families to their beaches. Please vote for option A. Thank you for your time today. Thank you, sir. Marie Rincey. Welcome. Hi, how are you? Just pull the mic and there you go. My name is Marie Rincey. I represent Long Time House Cleaning in the Back Creek District. I clean a lot of the STLs here in Frederick County, as well as Airbnbs, other properties here. So what I would like is that everybody can come to some kind of agreement to where I could possibly still clean these, properties because it's going to hurt. It'll hurt my revenue. It'll hurt my business. It's going to hurt my family, my livelihood. So if you could just take that into consideration, I would greatly appreciate it. Samantha Berry. Welcome. Thank you. My name is, hello, my name is Samantha Berry. I'm from the Bat Creek District. I co-own a short-term mill that happens to be on a private jive. It is very isolated with no other houses around it. I've been keeping up with the ordinance ordinance amendment meetings via the Frederick County website, and I've been very strongly want to make the case for option A as it pertains to having to get by and make a living. I work in sales, and like with many other jobs currently, inventory and supply has been very scarce during these times. Lately, it's been extremely tough. The way my job is set up is no inventory sold, no paycheck is made. And lately, there has been no inventory to sell. On top of that, in the current economic crisis and nationwide inflation, the Airbnb I co-own is the only thing that keeps me afloat and pay bills. Unfortunately, there is no end in sight for the mass shortage. Its effect on top of the economic crisis has been very crippling. In the meeting, I heard all of the viewpoints on option B. And while I understand where all of those who voted for option B are coming from, it seems like its thickest pillar, the very foundation it stands on, is that of a neighborhood quarrel. If option B passes, its detrimental effect will far outweigh whatever benefit it might bring. It will suspend all operations of Airbnbs on private drives during an economic crisis, thereby cutting off much-needed income in these very difficult trying times. This could very well trigger another economic downturn in our very own Frederick County as well. And in this situation, two negatives don't make a positive. It will force people to seek out a very costly and time-consuming permit and also have to seek approval on surrounding residents. It will also reflect and perpetrate bias from the county, among other businesses' owners that also operate on their private drives. Now, I'm definitely not advocating for these businesses to be handcuffed, but I'm definitely not advocating for these businesses to be handcuffed. I'm advocating for the equal treatment and fair right to private operations. I'm advocating for the ability to continue to meet my bills, and I'm advocating not to be handcuffed by the county. I'm advocating for option A. Please consider option A, and thank you so much for your time. God bless. Kevin Athey. Kevin Athey. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Raise that microphone, please, sir. Hi. My name is Kevin Athey. It seems we have two scenarios here that both present additional regulations, so I'm going to be in one of the favor that has the least amount of regulations. That would be scenario A. Based on the arguments I've heard here today, it seems like there's just an off, to her point, just an off chance that there'd be a neighbor's quarreling of somebody potentially speeding or maybe too many cars in a certain lot. In my opinion, when you purchased the home, you had some understanding that multiple people would be using that road. Someone who lives there full time could just as easily speed or kick up dust or whatever the major complaints were. If somebody's parking on the lot that's designated for the short-term rental, I don't see the issue. If they're parking in your property, that's another thing, and then you could very much call or call the authorities, whatever you need to do in order to get that problem resolved. If people are just staying there, trying to have a good family time and not violating any sort of the non-aggression principle or anybody's rights, I think they should be able to. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Angie Wooden. The district that he was from, he didn't mention. I'm sorry, Mr. Athey? Yes. Your magisterial district, please, sir. Back Creek. Back Creek. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry, Ms. Phillips. Angie Wooden. Welcome. Hi. Oh, download. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Angie Wooden, and I am from the Opecan District. I'm here this evening to advocate for option A. My husband and I have been active members of the community since we moved here in 2016. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. for 10 years, six years in Frederick County, making a salary of less than $43,000 per year, have had to completely shift careers, and I'm currently studying to be a registered nurse graduating in May. This has, of course, incidentally caused me to take on more student loans. I'm working full-time while raising three children and a foster child who is seven years old. Needless to say, our day-to-day struggles are very real and very difficult. Our Airbnb has been able to sustain us while we have been navigating through the aftermath of COVID. The idea that a CUP or a conditional use permit must be obtained to access our home would simply be preposterous. I mean, as far as, well, for example, my neighbor sitting here to the left, and as far as I know, they are the only two, according to the Zoning and Planning Office, two families that have made any complaint. There are no other complaints regarding private roads in Frederick County. They have demanded that, conditionally in a CUP, that we would be required to, you know, double our one-lane driveway as well as pave it. It's over a half-mile long. That would, based on research, that would cost us close to $100,000. $100,000 to be able to have the right to use our own driveway. And honestly, a half-mile driveway is a smaller or shorter in length compared to most in the area. At the last meeting, the Zoning Office explained that studies related to STLs have proven that STLs generate less trips than a single family occupying a home. These visitors are traveling, are not traveling during peak commuting times. When I was staying at 242 Waynes Lane, my three kids, they play, now my four kids, play sports, music, attend youth groups. And my husband and I are constantly driving up and down the driveway constantly. Ms. Sue Case complains about the wear and tear on the driveway, yet her husband owned a tow truck company and has cattle, and they're constantly up and down the driveway. We've never complained about it. Our other neighbors to the left of Ms. Sue Case, who have no issues with us operating Airbnb, have. A construction company and every morning have several workers coming in and out of the private driveway, which no one has ever complained about either. This doesn't come down to the driveway. Ms. Case, as she stated to me and my husband, said that this has changed the whole dynamic of the neighborhood. It, to me, doesn't make sense because we are on 23 acres. It's tons of privacy. And. Ms. Case can't even see our home from where she lives. I respect everything that she, you know, has said as far as walking up and down the driveway. That's completely unsafe to begin with. It's a one-way gravel road with several blind spots. And so walking that road in general is not safe. As far as strangers occupying these homes, we have a age requirement. You must be 25 years. If age or older, you must hold a government. You must provide a government issued ID and you have a full background check. Some of the examples of our guests have been for retirees coming to play golf. We have had one family come to enjoy apple season. We have had four ladies who were retired also come and have a reunion there to rent our Airbnb is. It costs money. So we're not having any kids. There's no one coming in and, you know, partying and there's none of the such. Um, they're very respectful. We hold a security deposit. So I asked this evening that you please vote for option a. A lot of our, a lot of us are struggling. We are trying to get creative and ways to survive so much. So is changing careers completely and, you know, trying to give our kids a good life. And so these Airbnb is are are a wonderful way for other people to come in and enjoy our community. Enjoy our restaurants, our boutiques, all the history that we have and help sustain members of the of the community such as our family. Thank you. Thank you. Carl Oxstetter. Welcome, sir. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Carl Oxstetter. I'm in the Opecan District. Just like most STL operators, I care very much about the community and the surrounding properties. I purchased the STL on Wayne's Lane from the shot drops mother as a home to raise my children in. And we spent many special years there. When we finally outgrew it, we made the decision to turn it into an STL. I'm an active realtor with experience with these rentals. I did not experiment on my neighbors to see how things would turn out. I knew that STLs are safe. And that traffic goes down significantly compared to a typical residential family. I wanted to specifically discuss the myth of increased traffic on STLs. Before I ever had a single guest, I went around and spoke to every neighbor to explain the situation and hear concerns out of respect. Increased traffic was the number one concern I heard. I tried to explain that traffic would actually be dramatically reduced, and that is precisely what has happened. Coincidentally, Frederick County has since conducted their own study into the effect of the traffic on STLs. I'm a big fan of traffic. I love traffic. I believe they have a lot of traffic. I've been working with the local city council and the local community for a long time, and they have determined that I have a number of positive results. It's a very effective STL traffic, and they have determined that traffic generally decreases, reinforcing precisely what I told the neighbors from the beginning. My rental is considered popular by the booking site and is known as a rare find. Yet it only has an occupancy rate of 54%. That means it is totally empty with zero traffic on average two weeks per month. That is what is considered a busy rental. If you'd like I can show the board booking statistics. I cannot fake these numbers. While my family lived there, we averaged about 14 trips either out or in the road, traveling to different bus stop times for different children, sports practices, and everything else busy families do. For the two weeks of the month that the home is empty, that is roughly 196 trips on the road per month that my family won't be taking. It is absolutely impossible for the rental guests to make up those trips. And they're almost certainly taking less trips than they did when guests are actually there. The data is in, and STLs generate significantly less traffic than a typical family. The idea of increased traffic and wear and tear started as an understandable assumption on my street, but it has turned into a false and unfortunate attempt to mislead the board by the complainants. Since starting the rental, the majority of the families on the road have absolutely no problem with the rental and told me, I quote, we don't even notice when people are there. The only people still complaining are the two families that vowed to fight us from the beginning. They've even threatened to send police cars to my house, as Mrs. Case told me, all before we ever had a single guest. Since opening, I have taken countless measures to protect the neighbor's property and privacy, including installing tasteful wooden directional signs that look like any other estate sign commonly seen in rural areas. It's now nearly impossible for guests to go down the wrong driveway. Before arriving, guests are given specific directions to the house, told to look for the directional signs, what the lot looks like, told not to contact neighbors for any reason, given the speed limit, and given me and my wife's cell phone number in case access questions still somehow come up. Once guests arrive, they're provided with a boundary map with landmarks that are actually artificially smaller than reality. That way, if they unlakely cross the boundaries, they will still be on my property. I even asked them to control noise, even though everyone on my street lives on massive parcels of land, mine being on 23 acres. It was falsely stated at the last hearing by Mr. Shottroff that I do not help maintain the road. We have deeded maintenance agreement, and I have met or exceeded those requirements since owning the home. We actually get the whole road regraveled every couple years by all the residents and split the bill. I was last asked to order new gravel by Mr. Shottroff's brother, and I complied. I was the one who footed the bill the last time this was done. I have the invoice for that here, if the board would like to review it. In fact, I did not ask Mr. Shottroff to contribute to that round due to hardship of the road. I did not ask Mr. Shottroff to contribute to that round due to hardship of the road. he faced due to a recent workplace accident he endured, but most others on the road did. So this is just more misleading accusations by the complainant in an attempt to get their agenda fulfilled. I was told yesterday by the senior planner in the Department of Planning and Development that there has been a grand total of zero other complaints in the county aimed at STLs on private roads. Zero. The only people in the entire county that are complaining are the families who grew up in my house and are trying to dictate what happens in their old home, and the woman that vowed to shut us down groundlessly before we had a single guest. My family and I are asking you today not to vote for a burdensome, potentially crippling ordinance aimed at problems that essentially do not exist. One that would put innocent STLs across the county out of business. Please let existing HOAs and POAs govern themselves regarding this matter. These are challenging economic times and the county and local businesses need the dollars that these rentals are generating for the community. Putting families livelihoods at stake over assumptions and personal agendas simply isn't right. I ask you today to vote in favor of local property owners and businesses. Please vote for scenario A. Thank you very much for your time and consideration. Thank you. Mike Shattroff. Welcome, sir. Good evening. My name's Mike Shattroff. I live in the Opec District. I'm not here to throw stones. I'm not here to throw books or anything and bring other people's names or whatever into it. But I've been here the whole time. I help work on the driveway even though I got a disability. I do the best I can. My brother does the best he can. When the last time that we purchased gravel, we keep a stockpile. And I personally bought that stockpile. It was hollow gravel. And that's the reason I didn't contribute to the last gravel, last time we got gravel. But anyways, the only thing I'm asking is because of the dust and the speed, it's dangerous. I've almost been hit three times, twice by our neighbor in my truck going around the blind curve where they drive fast. We're not against the STLs. We're against the traffic, the dust, and everything else. If the EPA came out there and seen that, they would shut it down because it's so dusty. And the only thing I'm asking is just vote for scenario B with the cop, and I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Tom Fitzgerald. Welcome, sir. Thank you, sir. Good evening, Board of Supervisors. My name is Tom Fitzgerald from the Back Creek District. I have one question tonight. Am I being fair? That's one question I have to answer each and every day with my daughters or anybody I'm in contact with. Am I being fair? And that's a question I believe we need to answer here tonight as well. I looked up the definition of being fair, and it says treating someone in a way that is right, reasonable, treating a group or people equally, not allowing a personal opinion to influence our judgment. An example is she's fair with all of her employees. She treats them all equally. Whether we are fair is the question we have to answer here tonight. I understand the concerns that you have as well in terms of living on private roads. I live on that private road as well, and I understand that. And we work things through. And I understand that. But I also understand that, as an HOA, there are some that do not pay. And there are mechanisms in place for us to move forward and say, hey, we need to do this. And if you don't, there are repercussions. But we work it out as an HOA. There was an HOA, our president didn't know how to get a hold of one of the particular members of that particular house. I said, I didn't know how to reach out to them. I reached out to them, and they were able to contribute to the overall fixing of the roads. So that was something we worked on together privately. I recently watched the Planning Commission meeting that you all got a report from. And there were some amazing quotes from there. And I'd like to share a few that stuck out to me. You don't have to take away their right to have an Airbnb. This is a difficult economic time. People are trying to save their homes and save their way of life. Scenario B is not fair. My family, COVID has been difficult. Coming out of COVID and the inflation that we're going through, economic things are expensive. I have a six-year-old and a nine-year-old girl, and things are very expensive. If I lose this STL, I'm not going to be able to pay the mortgage. And they've become a lot more difficult. Another quote. I would be deeply concerned to add a CUP for having the Airbnb when we just don't have that for any other business in RA in that home. It just isn't fair. It just doesn't seem right to me that we would single out one over the others. Scenario B is not fair. Just think, because you live on a private road, you don't have less rights than someone who lives on a public road. Scenario B is not fair. We are opening up a can of worms and singling out a new business, and that does not seem fair to me. Scenario B is not fair. Where does it end? Scenario B is not fair. When I watched the hearing of something like this, I thought, when I watched the hearing of something that occurred to me, all four commissioners that said these things and voted for Scenario A, they were all women. I was like, that's very interesting. They spoke eloquently, rationally, and fairly. I wasn't surprised, as the women have always had to fight for fairness and equality. And that they did. I looked up the conditional use permit. It's five pages. It's long. It's lengthy. And then you have to go through a whole process. Complete application filed, fee paid, advertisement, public, staff review, planning commission meeting, recommendation, board of supervisors, permit granted with conditions, inspection of conditions, periodic renewal when required, denial of permit. That's a lot. That's not fair. Just because you live on a private road does not mean you give up or lose those rights. We shouldn't differentiate. We are asking that any provisions or ordinances that are passed simply treat them as they are. We do our part to keep up the private roads and we would like to ask your help us to support Scenario A, which allows public and private road Airbnbs to be treated equally and fairly. In closing, when Michael Bolhoffer arrived to us here last October, one of the things he said about each one of you, the Board of Supervisors, is, board members value issues. Board members value issues of character. And among them are honesty, fairness, transparency, and integrity. That's what you said, sir, when you first arrived. And that second word was fairness. So I'm asking each of us here to be fair. Not for anything special, just for us to be fair. What an awesome charge that was from you, sir. I couldn't agree more. Thank you in advance for voting for Scenario A. And treating all of your constituents equally and fairly. God bless each of you. Thank you for the work you're doing. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Ma'am. If we could have your name, Magisterial District, limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. Yes, sir. And lower the mic a bit there. Wherever is comfortable for you. Yes, sir. My name is Gillian Greenfield of 261 Fox Motorway. I'm in the Gainesboro District. Dear Supervisors, regarding the amendment of Scenario B to provide additional regulations to short-term rentals, which would include the restriction requiring a CUP for properties on private roads, it should be reminded the national occupancy for short-term rentals is 64%. Therefore, most short-term rentals are vacant 14 days a month and typically travel up to a month. And typically, traffic consists of one car that arrives and departs rarely even one time a day. To evidence the flaw in this amendment B, a family of four can move into a house on a private road where previously a single person lived. This would increase year-round traffic on a private road. Should this require a CUP? Yes, sir. If an individual hires a caregiver for a family member that would be a CUP, would this require a CUP? Yes, sir. If an individual hires a caregiver for a family member that requires daily visits, this would increase year-round traffic on a private road. Should this require a CUP? For a farm who has crops and livestock, employees that come every day to work, this would increase year-round traffic on a private road. Should this require a CUP? When my kids become teenagers and get their driver's license, this would increase traffic on a private road. Should this require a CUP? And let me ask you, should Amazon have to get a CUP for the increased traffic they've created with deliveries we all now enjoy shopping for? All these examples are 100% occurrences happening every day in Frederick County. On the other hand, traffic from short-term rentals represents an immaterial fraction of private road use. The attempt to regulate it is assuming a problem that doesn't actually exist. For the absurdity, considering to apply CUPs to short-term rentals because of a concern for an extra car on a private road, I am against Amendment B. For the reasons I've evidenced, plus the worthlessness use of your important time and bureaucratic resources overseeing each CUP and how Amendment B is used, I am against it. I am against it. If Amendment B opens up the liability for the subjective nature by which these CUPs would be permitted or denied, you should be against the Scenario B. Of course, the choice is Scenario A. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who came to speak to this proposed change? Anyone? No one? We'll close the public hearing portion. How would the Board like to deal with this? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor McArthur. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make a motion to adopt Scenario A as the ordinance amendment. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. I've said this many times at these discussions, but tonight we heard various parties that live on the same road sort of sparring back and forth with their concerns. And it reminded me much more of a situation I would see in the building next door at the courthouse where evidence is being presented and arguments are being made. And unless this body wants to sit through hundreds of these types of examples and open up a can of worms that our administration will not be able to adjudicate fairly or objectively, then I think we have to go with Scenario A. There are options for folks who have private disputes. They should pursue those options. It's not the part of the government to legislate individually. It's not the part of the government to legislate individually. They should pursue those options. I don't think anybody is qualified to talk about individual disputes or solutions to those disputes. So I support Scenario A. Thank you, sir. A motion and a second? Yes, sir. Make an amendment. Second? I'm sorry. Second. Sean? I seconded it. You seconded it. Yes, sir. Thank you. My apologies. Thank you. I'm sorry. I missed it. You may. I would like to make an amendment to see if, Mr. MacArthur, we'd be going to have a report after two years just to get a feel on if a project is going to be adopted or not. So I'm just going to continue. Thank you. how this is going or not heard the proposed amendment is there a second I'm sorry sir all right I have a motion in a second is there any further discussion mr. chairman yes sir as this board's liaison to the Planning Commission I've heard many of tonight's comments before plus others I made a long list of things I know that we were split when we passed our when we considered this before and sent it to the Planning Commission as it's already been noted the Planning Commission also was split at its latest vote four to four so I thought I'd do due diligence and and make a number of notes as it turned out there were quite a few eloquent speakers who made many of these so but I want to point out a few things that might have not occurred today that I've heard at the Planning Commission well one of them supervisor McCarthy just covered he's pointed out a previous meetings that many of these agreements are verbal or ancient on some of these shared rural land and land use agreements and I think that's a good example of that so I want to point out a few things that might have not occurred today that I think are very important to note and that I think would be useful to note in the next meeting is that there is a lot of discussion about the implementation of shared lanes and they would be very difficult to resolve even if we want to try and resolve them during the CUP process I I believe we should well homeowners on shared lanes bought with the knowledge and a choice that they would manage shared access as a neighborhood project without County intervention and I believe we should leave it that way and not impose County bureaucracy as one of the on one of the charming aspects of a rural community I want to also note that rural area properties are usually large acreages so noise and light disturbance is not near the problem it is in dense denser areas this really struck me as one of the supervisors who lives on a quarter acre suburban lot it really made a difference to me when I realized it's not the same thing please don't imagine that this is the same thing as your immediate neighbor on a quarter acre lot deciding to operate an Airbnb and who would be that close to you and who would be that close to you in fact this regulation wouldn't stop that because you almost surely live on County Road rather these are almost always homes that are many acres apart from each other I also noted how this board favors sometimes solar farms as an option because it provides an income option although a new one and not always a happy one for neighbors for longtime land overs it allows them to keep from selling their land for development and it's a good thing because it's a good thing for the community to be able to live on a quarter acre lot and it stays available for historic uses like farming well STLs provide as we've heard tonight a similar benefit homeowners don't have to sell if they can make profit from a property STLs may also save the county money homes that are dedicated to short-term leasing do not have children incurring public school costs as permanent residents and as one speaker noted tonight making this process friendly so that we have more such properties we don't have the flexibility to pay for it such properties we don't have the flexibility to pay for it such properties we don't have the flexibility to pay for it such properties we don't have the flexibility to pay for it housing budget could be part of the reason why we don't have the flexibility to buy acres of this size and that's where we're at the moment of the moment is that we don't have real abatement in this scenario we don't have the flexibility to pay for it will reduce unoccupied eyesores. And the last thing I wanted to note, there's also a cost to go through the CU fee process, not just the time that one speaker mentioned, but there's an actual fee for this. That's just one more additional cost we're applying on county residents if we go with scenario B. I had one item I'd like to read in closing from a constituent not of mine, but from another district that I thought was notable, who I don't think spoke tonight. And with their permission, I'll read it. My husband and I live in a Redbud district. We own and operate a short-term lease in the Redbud district as well. Since there is no ordinance, we were given an account to pay our lodging taxes with. We've been operating for nearly four years and it has been very successful. Our neighbors also love it and actually prefer it over long-term renters because it's better taken care of. I'm writing you to give my opinion about the two options being presented by the zoning department. While it may not affect us directly because we don't share a driveway, a private road, or allow more than six guests, we feel option A is a better choice because these owners still have the right to rent their house as a short-term rental. Traffic is pretty much less, is actually much less than a family of five or six people in and out all the time, especially when children like ours start to drive. Also, some owners have much larger homes than we do and live way out in the county. They shouldn't be capped at 10 guests. We also operate a home in the city of Winchester and went through the CUP process. We were approved eight to zero, but it was still a long process and very expensive. So I thought I would share those thoughts from constituents. The majority of people who've reached out to me are in favor of scenario A and so am I. Thank you. Further discussion, anyone? Are we ready? Yes. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Schlatter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. I'm sorry? No. Thank you. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Option A is adopted. That'll bring us to planning business, rezoning 072. Mr. Kai. Good evening again Mr. Chairman, members of the board, this is rezoning 0722 for Renaissance 65 LC and Renaissance 35 LC. And this is an action item not requiring a public hearing. This proposed rezoning seeks to modify the proffers approved with rezoning 0417 known as the Carball Business Center. to remove the restriction on the number of entrances that would be allowed from future Renaissance Drive. Again, no other provisions in the approved proffer statement, the zoning, the buffers, and screening requirements are proposed to be amended with this rezoning, only the removal of the restrictions of the entrances. Directing your attention to the screen, the subject property outlined in blue is presently zoned M1, which is our light industrial zoning designation. For your orientation, the western property boundary is formed by existing Shady Elm Road, and the eastern property boundary is formed by the railroad. Route 11 is just here off to the east, and existing Renaissance Drive terminates just south of the existing railroad. The northern boundary of the site is bounded by what will become future Renaissance Drive, which is a county revenue share project. It's nearing its design completion, and then will proceed into construction. Going back to the image, staff would point out, even though the applicant is proposing to remove the restriction on the number of entrances, it doesn't preclude them from having to make any necessary improvements to access their portion of the site. The proposal to remove the restrictions was reviewed within our department and by VDOT, and it was found that that would have no net negative impact on the county's revenue share project. It does not affect the design that is currently moving forward towards construction. And at the time of site plan, if additional entrances were being sought, in addition to the two entrances, they're already currently planned as part of the road design. The applicant, the developer, would bear the cost to make that connection and to provide any improvements, whether that be turn lanes, tapers, anything of that nature. I just wanted to highlight that that it will not have an impact. As you all are well aware, the Renaissance Drive is a very important project to the county, and it is moving forward uninterrupted. So the Planning Commission recommended approval of this proffer modification on September the 21st. Again, this is an action item. There's not a public hearing requirement. The Planning Commission is not going to be able to make any changes to this. So we're going to have to wait and see until the next meeting. And following this presentation, staff is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on this proposed proffer amendment rezoning. Staff is happy to answer any questions. And Ty Lawson, representing the owners of the property, is also here. And we'd be happy to address any of your concerns. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Questions for Mr. Klein? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I understand this, the state is going to dictate how many entrances are going to be permitted here. Is that correct? That is correct. The applicant can request as many entrances as he or she wishes. But the state is going to have to make a decision on that. So the state is going to dictate how many entrances are going to be permitted here. Is that correct? That is correct. The applicant can request as many entrances as they would like. Ultimately, VDOT, as part of the site plan process, along with county staff reviews, it ultimately approves the entrance configuration and any other improvements that would be necessary to access the property. And how many sites, realistically, are we looking at maximum here? I know that two is approved. What, realistically, are we looking at here with the state requirements that are presently in place? I believe the earnest for many of us making those rezoning requests was that they potentially have a user that may request a third entrance. What they'd like to do as part of their site plan is have a designated entrance for passenger vehicles and then two other entrances for truck traffic to keep the passenger vehicles and truck traffic separated from one another. That's fairly common in a lot of our industrial areas. I would note that there is a pending site plan for this property, and it is currently under review. It has not been approved yet. And that's an ongoing discussion that's kind of subject to resolution after the proper amendment is acted upon. So is it, is the applicant agreeable to just changing the amendment to say three entrances instead of two versus an unlimited number? Has that been discussed? I do not believe that they have a number in mind on the total number, and I'll let Mr. Lawson speak to that. We have had discussions as recently as this week with VDOT, and as part of their site plan application approval, they are going to add notation that any subsequent entrances require VDOT approval and a traffic study determined if turn lanes are warranted. So we believe, as a planning staff, and we've reviewed this with the county attorney as well, that that is a sufficient, sufficient notation to protect the county's interest in Renaissance Drive. Thank you. Other questions? Anyone? I would say that as long as we're meeting VDOT's design standards, I don't have a concern about the number of entrances. But without that, or a wide open, as many as you want or choose to have, that's not good enough. It's a major thoroughfare. It will be carrying a high volume of traffic, both pedestrian and truck. It needs to be built to standards. It absolutely will be. VDOT is a concurring agency, and we do not approve site plans without a VDOT approval on the configuration. Yeah, good. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Yes, sir. Mr. Lawson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm here along with... Can't hear you from back there. Oh, my goodness. The folks at home can't. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. I'm here along with a representative from Peterson Companies to respond to any questions. I think Mr. Klein did an excellent job presenting. Okay. Questions of Mr. Lawson? Anyone? Mr. Graves. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Lawson, I would be leaning towards making a proposal to allow for three entrances. Exactly as was explained by Mr. Klein, to allow for that extra traffic flow. Would you, instead of having a wide open request for a number of entrances, would you and your client be amicable to having a limit of such three entrances to the property that are in conformance with VDOT standards? Would that meet your needs? We absolutely have to comply with all VDOT standards, as was pointed out. So we... That's a fact. I mean, we have to do that. We can get a lot of people to agree with that. I mean, we have to do that. We can get a lot of people to agree with that. We can get a lot of people to agree with that. We have to do that. We acknowledge that. As far as the number, we're simply not far enough along to know what the users of the property to the south of the future Renaissance Drive would want. We have been presented with that very scenario that was described, where associates use one driveway and the trucks use another. And that's what started this. But we're just not far enough along and I'd hate to do something like that. And VDOT allows us to do four, and here we are again. We're doing another proffer amendment. It may very well turn out the way you describe. My concern lies right along with the chairman's. I hate to see a wide open blanket of entrances. Cannot be. Cannot be. I mean, number one, as I've learned over the years, we don't get on VDOT roads without their permission and following their rules. We've also acknowledged that as part of any site plan process, we have to submit to that agency, your county staff process, that it is not going to be approved on a wide open basis. That just cannot be. VDOT will not allow that under any circumstance. But we're certainly pleased to state on the record that we acknowledge such restriction and whatever could be dictated, such as turn lanes and things like that. Frankly, we'd be delighted to build them. That's a good thing. A user believes they've got a volume and traffic study wants certain improvements. We want to be able to build those for our occupants of the property. So I think, respectfully, the county is going to be able to do that. The county is very well protected. The state is very well protected. And nothing's going to happen without VDOT's approval. Thank you. Yes, sir. Further discussion, anyone? Questions of Mr. Lawson? Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Lawson? Yes, sir. I thought if you said four, that's a new number to me. So prior to this, I had a conversation with Mr. Lawson, and he thought we were at three. And I was asking him the question, you know, why from two to unlimited, similar to what Mr. Graber said. So do you have, does your applicant have a desire for a certain number? And if so, can we do it? Because right now, I don't know. And I know we had this VDOT standard issue, but I was thinking that you were three that would fit what was required. Now, if it's four or five, so I'm going from concerns. I've not said four or five. And no, we don't have, we are trying to develop the site and get it as pad ready as possible for future users. We have had discussions with numerous prospects, and the point that was raised by Mr. Klein has been raised, and frankly, it makes sense. So I want my associates to come in one way, and the trust, and the trust to go another. That is a factor, and that's why this proffer amendment. The other is, and you need to remember the history, there was a restriction of two entrances. This was the old shocky piece, the carball piece. And if you look at the designs, and I don't know if they're loaded in here, we had two slides. We are at the very end, Wyatt, of ours, is where it was loaded before. We don't, well. When the project was originally approved, it came with a maximum of two entrances. And it also showed you where those entrances would be. And they're closer to shady Elm. And the reason was, when that property came along, we're building a bridge. And there's a big old embankment that's going up, and we're gonna clear the railroad tracks. And so that was the reason why there was a proffer GDP. That's fine, just leave that up. And what it showed, basically, where the bend is going towards shady Elm, when Shockey presented this for a rezoning, they're trying to get at least two. You're crimping me. You're not allowing me to come in because I've got this embankment, this bridge embankment. So I need to try to get two. That's where this language actually came from. It was not a spacing thing or anything else. It was because they were proffering to contribute towards this bridge. We paged forward, and that funding never materialized. We're now at grade. And so we've got a proffer. There were no restrictions on the property to the north. That was the Venture One property. There's no limitation other than you have to comply with VDOT regs. And so on. And that's fine. But it was a quirky situation for the Shockey, former Shockey property, Carbaugh Tract. And so what we did is we brought this proffer amendment to get rid of the restriction of two. And actually, there was a drawing that, again, showed that where they're going to be is cheating over and closer to shady Elm as opposed to closer to the railroad tracks. And again, the sole reason was because of the embankment. So we're cleaning that up is what we're doing and creating a situation to accommodate the at-grade crossing as opposed to elevated. Based upon VDOT standards, do you have an idea of what the maximum would be along? I don't. I do know there is pretty significant spacing requirements between intersections. We've not gone that far. You may be in a situation where there's only three given spacing. But we would just simply defer to VDOT. You mentioned the number five. I think that would be a tremendous stretch. And I don't think that's possible at all. But maybe planning would have more insight on that. But again, this is more in the vein of a clean-up. From a situation that, what is it, events have overtaken circumstances. And so that's what we're doing. I understand that. You've just gone from a certain number to an infinite number. And I know it wouldn't be infinite. But that was my concern. And so as the chairman said, it's a major road. And so you don't want to have traffic issues. You don't want to have accident issues, et cetera. So with an unknown, that's my concern. I understand. Thank you. And we would share that concern. Obviously, a safe place for our tenants, or if the property is sold in part, that they can enter an egress very safely. And of course, that's what the processes are for, especially site plan process. Thank you. Further discussion, anyone? I personally am completely confident that if a site plan is built by VDOT standards, and VDOT makes those calls, and requires them to follow their standards, it'll be fine. Thank you. Is this discussion or is this still question time? This is other planning business. So I can ask a discussion item? Sure. It's not a question for Mr. Lawson. Thank you all very much. OK. Thank you. I guess I don't have as much confidence as you do. I think VDOT does a good job. The regulations are there for a reason. But there's plenty of stuff VDOT does. And sometimes I look at it and I say, that's the stupidest thing I've ever seen in my life. And we just don't know. It's at the whim of the executive what VDOT's going to be doing in the future. So I'd like to keep some more control here locally at this level, because we don't have a crystal ball. We don't know what that area is going to look like 10, 15 years from now as it develops. So if we can find a happy medium where we can find something that's sufficient for the current need, like three or four, and cap it. And then if you need to go beyond that, come back and we reevaluate it based on the circumstances at the time. That would make me a lot more comfortable. Mr. Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My thoughts were in concurrence with Supervisor McCarthy's. I believe that this, the Renaissance Drive totally changes this property. It totally changes the means of egress to this property. So I also would agree that likely more than two entrants to this property are warranted. I also agree with his thoughts and philosophies on the appropriate approach at times from VDOT. And I think that there does need to remain some control here with this board with that road being a major thoroughfare at some point for what it was designed to do. So I would support up to four entrances into that property. And whenever everyone gets a chance to speak, I saw some other hands here would, will be making a motion to do that. Thank you. Yes, sir. Mr. Pierce. Before the board is a proper amendment offered voluntarily by the applicant. And I think it'd be appropriate for the board to make a request for the applicant to respond to that consideration rather than make any motion to amend their request. And then they can offer their consideration as it relates to that. For your knowledge, what we expect for VDOT spacing standards, likely the max that would be allowed would be four. And we're not sure. We're not even positive about that from what we've seen, but that's just for your edification. Thank you. I feel like I'm back in time and Chuck Maddox is at the podium, but four, four would be fine. And I, I I'll defer to, to Mr. Pearson in terms of what the spacing would allow. I, I think that probably is the maximum. Question. Question. Mr. Tyson. Mr. Lawson. I'm sorry. Supervisor Dine has a question. Just asking as a question. Could you, in a couple of weeks, I mean, could you come back and just say, here's what, according to VDOT we have as a maximum. I mean, Mr. Graber's put out an arbitrary number of four. I don't know. I'd be curious what VDOT says is actually yes. Along that section. But I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. And I guess along that section, what can or can't be done. I mean, we don't know, we don't have a number. I'd rather just have a good number from VDOT as he, as opposed to an arbitrary number. Well, I mean, I'm just asking as a question. No, I'm, I'm sure someone could, could contact VDOT. We, we know a few people at VDOT. We could also use our engineer. I think what Mr. Pearson is saying is based on the distances and the setbacks that you've got from Shady Elm, and there's probably, you know, probably setbacks from the crossing as well. He's, he's telling you he believes it would be a maximum of four. There, there are other factors that VDOT considers when they consider entrances, all based on safety. I do think we're getting pretty far into the hypothetical though at this point. And the reality is when you, when one does submit, you do go through a, a very rigorous site plan process, you do have agency reviews. The, the most important for this conversation is from VDOT and the engineers factor in all sorts of things that include just distance, but also sight lines and other things of that sort. And then just to add to it, if there is a need for a turn lane and that sort of thing, that's, that's put on the, the applicant as well. But all those are, are in, are in a place where I don't think you're going to get that hard number right now or in a week or two, but you would get it as a result of a formal site plan, a building size, the use and all those factors that go into causing VDOT to say yay or nay to what you're applying for. Thank you. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, if I could move things along, I'd like to make a motion along the lines of what Supervisor Graber had described. So allow up to four entrances based on the oral amendment that the applicant made subject approval being subject to a written amendment being provided to the county attorney sufficient to his review. Is that, is that clear enough? Mr. Attorney, Mr. Chairman, Mr. McCarthy, if I might, I actually sitting here was thinking about what that language looked like. And I think in the short proffer statement amendment, in number five that's listed there, it could simply, if this language is acceptable, it would be the owner agrees to construct not more than four commercial entrances, comma, as approved by the Virginia Department of Transportation, comma, for the property along Renaissance Drive. My motion would be to approve the proffer as amended in those terms as provided in writing to the county. Second. Second. Second. Is that good for you Mr Williams? Good. No public hearings required for a minor? Minor proffer. Thank you. Discussion anyone? Are we ready? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Schlatter? Aye. All right, that will bring us to board liaison reports. Are there any? Hearing none. Citizen comments on any issue they might like to bring before the board. Is there anyone? Seeing none. Board of Supervisors comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman. Yes, Supervisor Slaughter. As a representative on the regional, northwestern regional jail board, I'd like to share a letter that was shared with the board members. And it was addressed to Sergeant Timbrook from Ms. Gloria Puffenberger, who is the solid waste manager for the Department of Public Works. Dear Sergeant Timbrook, I want to thank you and the jail leadership for reactivating the trustee litter crew for the 21st century. The trustee's labor for the year represented an in-kind contribution of $49,041 and 25 tons of litter removed from our roadways, not including tires and bulky waste. This county would not have a local anti-litter effort without the labor provided by the community inmate workforce. During August, the trustees also dedicated many long hours to the work of the county's and the state's public's public health department. The agency also dedicated many hours to the work of the county's public health department. These changes will save county tax dollars by making the collection of recyclables more efficient at each of the collection sites. And she goes on a bit more, regards Ms. Puffenberger. So there is some good work that goes on. And I do commend the jail authority for that. Thank you, sir. you I mean it's a wonderful program it's a huge win-win for everyone involved other comments anyone vice chairman mr. chairman I move we adjourn there's two adjourns second okay all those in favor aye thank everyone for their time attention you
