Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2022-09-07
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=160
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioners, just a reminder, make sure you turn on your mic before you speak, please, so that we make sure the public hears us and it's clearly. Welcome, everyone. Crowd out. It's nice to see people tonight. Next up is the adoption of the agenda. And I would like to make, commissioners, I'd like to make one change with the agenda. I would like to move item 6B, which is currently under informational discussion, up. On the agenda to come before the public hearing section. Mr. Reed has traveled here from Harrisburg and is going to give us a briefing about BDOT planning. So, with that, do I have a motion to adopt the agenda? Move to approve. Second. Second. All right. I have a motion to second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Okay. The agenda is approved. Next up, committee reports. I think from a planning. Planners. I think we're good on all of our committees. So, I'm going to look for Mark Winchester, planning liaison. Thank you. Mark Loring, again, Winchester Planning Commission. We had our monthly work session yesterday. And I'll just report one proposed rezoning. And it's about 5%. And it's about 5 acres on National Avenue, where the Smoltz property is, where the Flores used to be. And it's for a townhouse PUD. Additionally, I highlight that we had a discussion about changing or adjusting our PUD density bonus provisions and ordinance. And we'll work through both of those in two weeks at our regular session. That's all I've got to report. Thank you for coming out tonight. Thank you for the Board of Supervisors. I'm Mr. Logweg. Yes, thank you. The Board remained unclear at its last meeting the best path forward regarding a short lodging ordinance. But we do desire to get one in place as soon as we can. This does not represent a difference in position between the supervisors, but rather is a genuine concern about how to balance citizen rights. Thus, both options were approved to come to this board. this commission today to public hearing with the goal of collecting citizen and commissioner inputs to inform a final decision. So we appreciate and will listen to anything brought about today. The other thing I'd like to mention is that among other actions taken at the supervisor's meeting, the airport terminal appropriation was approved, although it was amended to permit a ceiling of $2.5 million in debt rather than $5 million. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Okay, next up is citizens' comments, which is open for any items not before the commission for the public hearing or on the agenda. If we have any, please come forward. Hi. Please state your name and your magisterial district, please. Okay. My name is Mary Ann. My name is Mary Ann. My name is Jackie Scott. I'm in the Red Bud District. I'm a teacher at Donker Elementary. I'm also a part-time realtor with Redfin. I've been a resident of Winchester for 10 years now, and for those 10 years, I've lived in the Apple Ridge neighborhood off of Sensody Road. I'm here tonight to request your consideration for a multipurpose walking or bike path for Sensody Road. There's currently many citizens who walk, run, and bike on the shoulder of Sensody. There are some who are walking on the shoulder of Sensody Road, including myself. However, due to the high volume of traffic and the rate of speed of the vehicles on this road, it's not always safe. Many of the neighborhoods off of Sensody are isolated cul-de-sacs, so like one or two street communities. And if a citizen in these areas would simply just want to take a walk, they don't even have a place to do it. I see senior citizens in the Abrams Chase 55-plus community. They're literally just walking back and forth on that one tiny street. Also, currently, there's no public transit. There's no transportation option for this side of Winchester. This, again, leaves a lot of people isolated. The Frederick Heights Neighborhood Park is the only county park in that entire area. However, it's only accessible by car unless you live in the immediate neighborhood. Bike paths and multipurpose trails have a strong record of adding economic vitality to their immediate area. Studies have shown that retail shops and restaurants receive an immediate economic boost when one is added nearby. I have a study to cite that. If you would like me to email it to you at some point. So there's strong evidence to believe that the construction of a multipurpose path would drive more traffic for retail shops and restaurants in the immediate area. And I am specifically thinking of how this could help improve traffic to the shopping center on the corner of Greenwood and Sensody, which currently is a flailing shopping center. Additionally, homes near a bike path or a multipurpose path experience as much as an 11% increase in property values when compared to homes that are not. I know from personal experience. As a realtor, the many homeowners love the prospect of being able to bike to and from work. And this can be a major selling point for a home. I specifically have recently toured with a couple who needed to be able to bike or walk to Shenandoah. That was their number Shenandoah University. Number one priority when looking for a home. I'm aware that there is a walking and bike path and to run along Abrams Creek. And I'm so happy for that. However, I think a path along Sensody Road would still be necessary and would complement the route. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. And would complement greatly this project already underway. I think it would fit well into the long-term plans already underway on the eastern side of town. I'm envisioning a future where I can safely take my two young children on a walk or a bike ride to the grocery store or a restaurant. Where kids can safely walk or bike ride to school and to the library that's planned for the area. And I would love to help drum up support in any way possible. I'm not sure how, but that's why I'm here. And I appreciate your time. And congratulations. And congratulations. Thank you. Thank you so much for coming. Is there anyone else? At this time, I will close the citizen comments portion. So, at this time, I would like to invite Mr. Reed to come up and give us his presentation. We appreciate your time and coming before us. Indeed. Thank you, Chairman Jewell, Commissioners. Really appreciate you all having me here tonight. My name is Brad Reed. I'm the district planner with VDOT. I imagine you all see VDOT. I'm a little bit less than the board. So, I'm really glad to be here tonight to see some new faces and hear from some citizens about some concerns that they have. I joke with John that I'm doing him a favor by being here. But really, it's a pleasure for me to be here and interact with you all. I should also mention, my office, I have two other planners. Adam Campbell and Shane McCabe joining me to make up. The three of us are the district planning group. So, the Stanton District, for you who aren't familiar, covers a very large geographic area. So, we provide technical transportation planning services to 11 counties, 7 cities, and 3 MPOs. So, within that area, you'll see, I mean, just coming up to Frederick, we're up the far northern end, then we extend all the way down through the valley, down to Lexington and Rockbridge County, and all the way out to the border of Shenandoah Mountain, West Virginia. So, we are also broken up into three residency areas, which is those are the folks who you'll probably see typically coming to your board meetings, the residencies. There are three of them. The one for you all is in Edinburgh, residency administrators at Carter. You'll hear from them usually as sort of the on-the-ground, boots-on-the-ground liaison for maintenance issues, land-use issues. And then they're coming to the folks like myself, the districts, along with the many other people who are down in Stanton with me to provide technical assistance to them and guidance. And reviewing technical documents. So, we do quite a bit. Probably the thing that you see the most is land development, right? So, all those traffic impact analyses that you all look at, they've gone through a pretty extensive VDOT review where we've gotten into the weeds, we've reviewed the traffic models, we've reviewed the assumptions, we've reviewed the proffers and whether or not the proffers match up with the mitigation that's proposed with the development. And we make recommendations to the residency. We make recommendations to the residents. We make recommendations to the residents. We make recommendations to the residents. We make recommendations to the residents. Which then passes it on to yourselves, the commission and the board. We do really strongly advocate to have, as you might expect, mitigatory actions taken when we have a land development. Come online and make sure that the impacts of the community are reconciled and ultimately that the public services that we provide with our infrastructure are not degraded by those developments. So, really trying to look out for the operation of the safety of our facility and not just for vehicles, but also making sure that pedestrians and cyclists can get around safely. So, you can see, that's right, ma'am. We do a number of different things aside from that, though. We provide planning documents. Sometimes you might see there's a VDOT study that makes its way here. I'm glad to present on those in the future if there's a desire, for sure. We have a number of different planning studies that recently just wrapped up. One, Exit 317. For a recommended diverging diamond interchange. One, at the intersection with Exit 313, Route 50, where we proposed an intersection modification at the interchange with Route 522 and the 81 ramps. We had a sense of public input there. We also had a recent study in the City of Winchester. So, you all have a liaison from the city here, I think that's a great thing. But we did a study on Valley Avenue in Winchester. So, we provide local technical assistance. So, we provide local technical assistance. So, we provide local technical assistance. For any other matters as well, so if John gives me a call, needs help with something, has a question about an upcoming issue, we're there to help. We have any funds that we can apply at our discretion to help fund planning studies to address existing and emerging issues. We also have a comprehensive plan review. So the comprehensive plan, before it comes to you all, I get a sneak peek at the transportation chapter and how the land use changes are going to relate to changes in the transportation network and impacts there too. So we'll go and see, well, okay, are we, it's kind of like the land development, are we making sure that we're providing facilities that complement the recommended changes in the land use plan, land use guide? We also provide oversight to the Winchester Frederick MPO. And the staff there and provide them with regional scenario planning. So you'll see sometimes either in the long-range transportation plan document or in your own comprehensive plan, we have these future year forecasts for what is traffic going to be like, what we think in the future, and how congested will the roadways be. That's one of the things that VDOTS provides support for and helps with the forecasting and the creation of those models. And then we work with your planners to generate the assumptions that go into them because they're much better. Make sure that we're going by the local experts and what they know about what's happening. We also do statewide research initiatives. So we have a number of, we have a transportation planning research advisory council in Charlottesville, among many other disciplines that are funded through the state with planning funds. And we perform research on various issues, be it access management issues, be it how to properly account for trip generation for future warehouses. You've had a lot of those lately. So how do we assume when we get a piece of paper that shows a million square foot warehouse and we don't know what that warehouse is going to necessarily be used for? Will it be a fulfillment center? Will it be something else? Will it just be a fully automated center with a bunch of robots running around? We don't know. So how do we estimate the impact, the transportation network, you know, without some of those assumptions? So we're trying to get ahead of some of those issues. So with land development here, this is just an example. Some of the things you'll see from us here, we have a TI scoping form. We come up with assumptions. So we're there at the beginning of the conversation to help develop those assumptions that feed into that traffic impact analysis. And with advisement from our local planners as well. A big part of what we do, though, is providing support for developing candidate projects that ultimately make it into VDOT's six-year improvement program. That's where all our capital funding is to help. Deliver transportation-related projects. And we have a number of different planning programs. I won't bore you with those details. But ultimately, they end up providing support and development and community engagement to help come up with recommended transportation projects. That we then provide support for funding in various programs like Smart Scale, which you may have heard of before. Transportation Alternatives, which is a bicycle and pedestrian multimodal focused. Funding program. And many more. So that's sort of our bread and butter. And funding today, we primarily are looking to fully fund transportation projects. No more gone are the days of, okay, now we're going to get design money. Now we're going to beg for more money. Now we're going to get a little bit more money and acquire some right-of-way. When we fund a project, we fully fund it now. That is our new initiative. It's really the direct credit. Yeah. And that's what happens when you apply for a Smart Scale project. We provide the data-driven process that leads up to that. Develop alternatives. And ultimately come up with recommendations. So you're probably very familiar with the original planning process. Trying to help bring stakeholders together to find a problem. What's our vision for that area? What are its needs? And then develop alternatives that can address those needs. And ultimately work our way down. To just, you know, identifying a preferred alternative that we can work with the public throughout this process. To make sure that we're delivering something that has support. That's going to fix the issue. So you'll see things like this is an example from our study at the interchange with X313. Where you don't have to worry about all the little details of the map. It's just meant to be a pretty picture to show you there's lots of data that goes into the things that we do. With between traffic counts and modeling to assess. What kind of operational issues exist at different locations. And in this case at X313. We find out that in the future there are some pretty critical capacity impacts at this interchange. There's also some development as you may be very well aware. Some logistics related development that occurred or has been approved just immediately here to the east. And I have a pretty snippy impact on that interchange. So coming up with. Analysis of patterns, trends and how we can address those issues and make our roads ultimately safer. Is very important as well. Test out many different alternatives. So this is just a big list here. In this case of what we consider in this particular location before we end up at. Well, what's what do we think is really going to address the issue? You can see here a bunch of letter grades basically. It's kind of like a school grades. A is the best for level of service. Kind of relationship to delay. At least the amount of delay asked the worst. So you see a lot of a lot of ease. And then ultimately the recommendation is down there. See, so that's the kind of thing you'll see in our public messaging. And our public engagement, which. Public surveys that look kind of like this where. Ask the public questions about what their needs are, what the issues are, and what do they think ultimately. Of the recommendations that we're putting forward in that planning effort. So here's a survey that went out for exit 313 asking about this intersectional alternative here. And ask for ratings for it. And ultimately we got a 477 responses in our survey. So fantastic way online public engagement is something that we really stress now and ultimately gets us a lot of great information. And then we can provide executive summaries to folks like yourselves to explain how we ended up. Tell the story of how we ended up where we did and bring you along with us. And. Help explain where we get take that project next. And then smart scale. Finally, this is just an example. If you aren't familiar with smart scale, this is where the majority of the state's transportation capital funding ends up. So this how this is a competitive grant program that statewide folks like John folks like the from the RMPO make application for transportation projects into this program. And as judged by six different criteria, which you can see up here, congestion mitigation, safety. Accessibility, economic development, environment, land use. Etc. I will spare you all the details on that. But just to make the point that we are as an agency and as a Commonwealth moving much more towards a data driven, prioritized process of delivering transportation funding. And that's our ultimate goal. But the that's all I have here formally. But I just want to say it's a pleasure meeting you all pleasure coming here tonight. And we would emphasize, please reach out. If you have any questions about a TI that lands in front of you, a land development, the impacts there, too. We try and be pretty explicit with our concerns when we deliver comments to you all. And certainly want to make sure that any questions from that technical analysis get addressed. So we're here to help. And yeah, really, it's just very important. Really appreciate your time. Glad to answer any questions if you have any, too. Anybody have a question? Mr. Reed. This is Mr. You got a question? Anybody have a question? I know. I appreciate your time. I appreciate what you all do. And the TIAs are very interesting. Yeah. I will make the statement that get as much funding up here as you can, please. So we've got enough to work on. So thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Commissioner, appreciate your time. Yeah. All right. Mr. Reed, thanks again. Really appreciate it, sir. All right. Next item up is a public hearing. Regarding rezoning number 0622 of Tasker Warrior properties. Mr. Bishop. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and members of the commission. As you noted, we're talking about the properties of Tasker and Warrior, specifically the southwest quadrant of the TAS. And the southwest quadrant of that intersection. This is a proposed rezoning to modify a proffer statement that was associated with rezoning number 0418, Tasker and Warrior Drive Commercial Properties. Specifically and simply, what this proffer modification does is adjust the hours of operation as applies to financial institutions so that an interested party can go ahead and put in an ATM machine. Okay. And just to reiterate your location, of course, you have the intersection right here of Tasker and Warrior Drive. And this is the parcel in question. As noted, this is what is being said. Unless I hit the wrong button. This is what's being said. We're simply doing a proffer revision to allow for an ATM to be operated on this site. And to do that, the hours of operation as relates to financial institutions, and banks, had to be modified. All the other proffers associated with the existing rezoning remain in place. This does not allow any other commercial entity to go outside the already existing hours of operation limitations in the rezoning. This is a public hearing. Following the public hearing, we are seeking a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors. Of course, I can try and address any questions you may have. We do have Mr. Mark Thomas here. From Pannoni, representing the application. So, any questions for Mr. Bishop first? Oh, everybody's good. Any questions for Mr. Thomas? All right. Everybody's good. So, thank you, Mr. Bishop. Appreciate it. I open this public hearing to anyone who wants to come forward and speak for or against this item. Please come forward. State your name. Magisterial district. And let's keep the comments less than three minutes, please. Okay. Thank you. All right. I don't want to see a lot of people running up for this one. So, I'll close the public hearing portion. Discussion among the commissioners. Anybody have any problems or? Seems like a bank needs an ATM. This one's pretty cut and dry. So, all right. Well, I'll tell you what then. Do I have a motion from the Shawnee District? Mr. Chairman, I move for approval of rezoning OCHE. Rezoning 06-22. I second that. Okay. We have a motion. We have a second. I will start with Ms. Brannon. Brannon, yes. Brumbach, yes. Dawson, yes. Orndorff, yes. Emanuel, yes. Ozel, yes. Triplett, yes. Chairman votes yes. So, it's approved. And this will go before the Board of Supervisors for a public hearing on September 28th, 2022. With that, we'll move on to the next item. Mr. Pearson, ordinance amendment, short-term lodging. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. Standing in for Mr. Tyler Kline, as he enjoys the sun and the Outer Banks, make sure to give him a hard time when he gets back for that, as we enjoy this gloomy weather. This is a request to amend the zoning ordinance to add short-term lodging as a definition and some associated additional regulations for that specific use. And I'll take a motion to approve. Any other questions? If not, we'll be happy to continue. At the end of this hearing, absor PUBG will receive must follow the chapter 2 requirements and barriers. They are the following. To Put Home Home Remove Oversite If Jong J entitled to grant that items to the It's slowly taking gender from one home using united system should serve as property owner of two detta. Curb. the building inspection department and therefore can't be classified as a dwelling would not be permitted in the way this ordinance is currently written the board of supervisors sent two options forward for your all's consideration and specifically requested some direction from your all's opinion on these two items scenario a would allow for short-term lodging to be allowed by right for dwellings in the rural areas residential performance and mobile home community zoning districts scenario b would modify that slightly and say that if it's in the rural areas and it's not directly served from a state roadway that is to say it's accessed by a private easement that's shared with other property owners then they would need a conditional use permit in order to operate the short-term lodging operation i know you all have seen this before but i'll again go over just the items that were proposed originally and some minor things that have changed again the definition would be you short-term lodging or stls any occupancy if all are part of a dwelling or mobile home for a period of 30 days or less the maximum number of lodgers per night is not to exceed 10 unrelated persons that had previously been phrased as 10 persons and prohibited a large family from utilizing one no more than five guest rooms are permitted in any short-term lodging operation the maximum number of rental contracts is one that's to avoid them having multiple rental contracts in one operation and skipping over any of our other regulations i'm a dwelling or manufactured home chow call with the following Fn deserved available for inspection during reasonable hours by county staff out Ricky bt and research mate using carbon monoxide that actors have a plan posted at the inside or the sleeping room showing exit pathway and then this is a changed from what you all so last time I'm want to new designated office regarding spaces available forRYK for lodgers which the operator has the authority to reserve for those tenants it was previously scoped as one off street parking space special events as defined in part 101 of the ordinance which is the special event facility definition are prohibited in association association with the short-term lodging use however if somebody were to have a conditional use permit to operate a special event facility they still could get a permit to have short-term lodging with it but this makes sure that we're not allowing them to do weddings as part of the administrative permit for short-term lodging hope that makes sense section F just makes it clear that they need to receive an administrative permit from the Planning Department and receive a business license from the Commissioner of Revenue and then item G is what I referred to as how scenario B would be worded if they're in the RA zoning districts and they share a private drive with any other property then they would need to come before the Commission and the board to receive a conditional use permit otherwise it would be permitted by right and they'd simply need the administrative permit processed by staff we never shy away from a mapping exercise and conversation came up as to how many short-term lodging operations might be located on private easements and in turn affected by scenario B so just to review what that looks like short-term lodging serviced by private streets is the teal color short-term lodging serviced by public streets is the orange color and you can kind of see there's roughly six or seven teal colors which means they're on private streets and these are only the short-term lodging operations that we know about we're I checked with the Commissioner of Revenue today and this maps a little bit outdated but we're currently aware of 31 I have reason to believe that there's at least probably double that that we've yet to catch up with if not more than that so that's just a quick summary of what we're seeing here. So this item is presented for public hearing staff seeking recommendation from the Planning Commission forward to the board and specifically the board has requested you provide some guidance on scenario A or B as appropriate happy to answer any questions you all have on this item. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? Mr. Treblak? Short-term how long is short-term? 30 days or less. Thank you. You're welcome. Ms. Brannan? I'm confused what the Board of Supervisors are looking for like comments on those scenarios or us picking a scenario? A recommendation on which approach I think would be appropriate comments would also be encouraged to help them as they make their final decision but I do think that they're seeking with you as their subject matter experts your opinion on what you think would be the best approach much of the board conversation circulated around this concept of whether or not regulation should be done by the locality or it's something that should be worked out amongst the private property owners who share that private easement and whether or not there is a greater impact of a short-term lodging operation compared to what would be a single family residence to that effect. My next question. Your little dots. Those are operating. Yes. They're operating short-term lodging but we don't know how long they've been operating because the state's just told us to start looking at it. Yeah, that's right. That's right. It's less than a year now but we worked with the Commissioner of Revenue, some rules changed with taxation. We started getting checks from Airbnb that they were collecting on behalf of the operators and it really called to attention that we have this somewhat unregulated use and right now everybody would be required to have a conditional use permit. And far be it from me from wanting to process probably 60 conditional use permits with you all in a short timeframe, we spoke with the board in a work session format and agreed that we would try to pursue a buy-right process if possible. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else? Well, that was the key right there. So currently, oh, I'm sorry. Yeah. Lake Serene, the summit, are they all examples of private roads? Lake Sinclair, are they all examples of private roads? Yes. I'm going to look to my, I'm not familiar with any of those roads but I would- State road? Yes. They're all private, I believe. Yeah. Yeah. The ones in the, the ones in R5 though, we thought about that and we're only doing it in the rural areas. And so like Lake Holiday, Lake Frederick, Shawnee Land are all zoned R5 because they are private road systems but they're looked at a little bit differently. They either have some HOA maintenance component to it or there's a broader type of maintenance. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. So the shared, anybody else? And R5s weren't considered in this? If you're an R5 and you adopt scenario B, you would not have to come and get a conditional use permit. You could do it by right. Yeah. Our primary, that's RA that we're looking at here for that. Is that correct? So, and I want, if we're, in the current process, everyone would have to come get a CEP right now. With doing this ordinance, we're going to eliminate any other issues that we're going to have to deal with. So, and I want to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to make sure that, uh, I'm going to make sure that we're going to have a CEP that meets the requirements of the ordinance. And we're going to limit, uh, all of those things. So with doing this ordinance, we're going to eliminate, we're not going to completely eliminate, depending on what we do here, but we're going to recommend a much more streamlined system, right? That's right. And currently, the only definitions that we can safely use are a bed and breakfast or a rooming and boarding house. And both of those are problematic for what the current model of an Airbnb operation looks like in that they indicate that there's food service provided and staff onsite to some extent. Which, if you've ever used an Airbnb, more than often is not the case. Right. Right. Can I ask another question? I've never stayed in Airbnb, I don't think, unless renting a house on the beach. So the owner would not be home, correct? Sometimes they are, sometimes they're not. In my experience, more often than otherwise, they are not there. Sometimes they rent out portions of the home and they still reside on the premises. This is other times the entire home is the rental and that's how it functions. Yeah, because I was just curious, are we trading traffic or creating traffic? We took a look at it. Yeah, we took a look at it and everything that we found, and again, we haven't done any study of any Frederick County specific scenarios, but all of the evidence that we could find related to studies conducted in similar circumstances is that short-term lodging operations generate less trips than a normal single-family home, and they're also not peak-hour commuting trips because the check-in times are in the middle of the day, typically. Mr. Trillip. Thank you. Yes, sir. So we consider all gated communities as private roads, private gated, I'm speaking of the gated communities. Yes, I believe that all of the gated communities in Frederick County do have private road systems. That I'm aware of, yeah. Thank you. Can't gate a public road is what Mr. Bishop said, so. Basically, where state maintenance ends, it's a, that's, right? Yeah. I'm looking around. Not too often I get to look over this way and go, yes. Private roads can look a lot of different ways. They can be simple easement agreements that were granted in a different way. There's a lot of different ways that they can look. But anything that's not a state road is pretty much the way we've been referring to it. Yeah. Well, thank you. Thank you. I'm going to circle back. We're trying to streamline this and make it sensible. So. This is a public hearing item, Mr. Chairman. So, right. Anybody else have any questions for now? Good. Okay. I open this public hearing to anyone who wants to come forward and speak for or against this item. Please come forward, state your name, your magisterial district, and please keep your comments to less than three minutes, please. Okay. Leslie Shattroff, Opecan District. This STL business has been an ongoing issue for us residents on Wayne's Lane for several months. It was not designed for all the extra traffic. The traffic, the extra traffic is causing excessive wear and tear on our driveway. Something needs to be done. There is only six houses on Wayne's Lane and it's a gravel driveway. It is a very quiet, peaceful, safe little neighborhood. All of us neighbors personally know each other and we care deeply for what we have. I've lived on Wayne's Lane for 32 years. My husband's family has lived there for 80. I can remember when I didn't have to lock my doors because I felt safe in my own home. Because of the STL guests that are total strangers, I'm locking my doors at night. And I have placed cameras around my property. We have guests coming in the driveway at excessive speeds. There are speed limit signs posted 15 miles an hour. A few years ago, the owner of the STL at 242 Wayne's Lane placed a private driveway, no trespassing sign, to keep out strangers from walking down our privately owned driveway. They have moved. Now the strangers are our problem. Our driveway is approximately half a mile long with dead ends and the residents maintain to keep. We don't feel safe to take walks down our own driveway. A few of us have almost been hit in our own vehicles because of the guests. Please vote scenario B with the cup attached stating, when an STL wants to operate, they must have direct access from a state maintained road, not a privately owned driveway. If the county is going to grant STL owners right to operate through a privately owned and maintained driveway, the STL owner must obtain the right to operate through a privately owned and maintained driveway. The STL owner must obtain the right to operate through a privately owned and maintained driveway. The STL owner must obtain the right to operate through a privately owned and maintained driveway. The STL owner must obtain the right to operate through a privately owned and maintained driveway. The STL owner must obtain written certified permission from all the residents granting their permission to run their STL through said driveway. The STL owner must widen and pave in the driveway so that two vehicles can pass safely. Please vote scenario B. Thank you. And by the way, I passed out some petitions before the meeting. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. Hi. Good evening. My name is Sue Case. I'm from the Opecan District, and I also live on Wayne's Lane in Stevens City. And my lane is being used as an access to an Airbnb short-term lodging property on a frequent basis. This is causing overuse and abuse to the lane. Our lane is a shared one-way dead-end gravel private driveway, and it is showing signs of wear and tear due to the excessive use. Ours is a very troublesome situation. Only one car can use a lane at a time. When another car approaches, someone must back up and pull into another property owner's yard or driveway, causing issues for that property owner. Scenario A, by right, would be ridiculous to even consider because other property owners are affected. Scenario B would make STL owners feel like they're being abused. The reason for this is that STL owners obtain a CUP if their property is accessed from a shared private driveway. I actually feel that it makes more sense to make an STL property, to make all STL properties come off state-maintained roads. This way, there would be no problems concerning private shared roads accessing STL properties. I suppose of scenario A or B must be voted on. I would prefer B only if regulations are added, like the roadway leading to the STL must be two lanes wide enough for two vehicles to pass and the roadway paved. Written permission from sharing parties should be required as well. I'm aware that typically STLs don't generate a huge amount of traffic, like an event venue, but our driveway in particular cannot handle any more traffic other than the homeowner's vehicles that use it. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Please state your name and your magisterial district. Good evening. My name is Carl Oxstetter. Come a little closer, then you can be able to hear me. My name is Carl Oxstetter. I'm from the Opequian District. I operate a short-term rental. I actually operate the one that they're mentioning right now. Before I even had a single guest, I went around to every single homeowner out of respect. And I've been a regular homeowner since I was a child. I've been a regular homeowner since I was a child. I've been a regular homeowner since I was a child. I've been a regular homeowner since I was a child. I've been a regular homeowner since I was a child. I actually operate the one that they're mentioning right now. Before I even had a single guest, I went around to every single homeowner out of respect, listened to all their concerns. The number one concern that I got from them was how much increased traffic there's going to be. I'm a realtor. I have direct experience with this. I didn't experiment on my neighbors or my neighborhood. I knew that short-term rentals were very safe and very well regulated, and there would be a drastic reduction in traffic. And that's precisely what happened. For instance, I calculated, my wife and I, before we moved out of this home, we would make seven trips out of the property per day. That's 14 trips in or out. That's 98 trips per week. So every week that these are not booked, that's about 100 trips that are not being taken in and out of this property. And my rental is booked about 50% of the time. It's vacant about 50% of the time. So it's getting a couple hundred or more less trips, as Mr. Pearson stated, with the rentals and the rentals. So the fact that they're stating that it's excessive wear and tear, it's completely false. When my guests arrive, I give directions, very clear directions. Before they arrive, they're made aware of the recommended speed limit. It's not an official speed limit. To be aware of the specific recommended speed limit. Not to contact neighbors for any reason. And they're provided. Not just my phone number, but my wife's phone number, my co-host, just in case there's access questions because it is a rural country road. That way, if for some reason they couldn't get in touch with me, they can get in touch with her and they wouldn't interfere with the guests. So I'm going above and beyond trying to make everything seamless to get my guests in and out with no negative ramifications on the neighbors. There were five other families on the street. They all had concerns. When I went around discussing my plans with a short-term rental, they were all concerned. Since it's been going on for three months, three of them have absolutely no problem. They've been given a blessing. One of them even stayed in the home, said the advertising was very professional and very well done, and they don't even notice when there's guests. This person, he's the very first person at the street. His quote was his bedroom is 20 feet away from the road. He didn't even notice. He didn't even notice. He doesn't even notice when the guests are here. Neither does the direct neighbor of Mrs. Case over here. He says he doesn't even notice when anyone's there. Safety and booking. I was on the place to sign up because we had unknown people walking off, one unknown person walking off the street with a dog. My guests have to present a social security number, a government issue ID that's verified, as well as a security deposit. These are invited guests that we know exactly who they are. They're not just a regular person. They're exactly who they are. So there's plenty of safety in booking. Not to mention, last and not least, we all live on massive parcels. I live on 23 acres. Mrs. Case lives on 20 acres. We have so much space and elbow room out there that it's just unbelievable. All my guests have been amazing, and I give strict rules about property. I give actual diagram of property boundaries in my home so they know exactly where to stay, and we've had absolutely zero problems. So the majority of the street has given me their blessing and say they have absolutely zero ramifications from the short-term rental. These two families, they were against it no matter what from the very beginning. Mrs. Case said no matter what I told her before we had a single guest, she would never agree to it. Basically saying, it doesn't matter what goes on. I'm never going to be for it. I mean, really not based on facts. The other family, the Shawtroughs, they grew up in the house. This was my first time in the house. It was their family's childhood home. One of the brothers had to move out when I purchased the home, so you can understand how sticky that situation is when they're seeing something with their home that they don't necessarily approve of. So I just wanted to voice my opinion. As hosts, we care very much about our properties and the communities. We're doing everything we can possibly do to make it safe, and the majority of the street has absolutely no problem. It's just the two families that had basically vowed to never agree. I'm not going to be for it. I'm not going to be for it. I'm going to agree and go along with this operation. So thank you for your time. I just wanted to give you my perspective on that. Thank you, sir. My name is Michael Shawtrough. I live in the Opec district, and I grew up in the house. I could care less what he does with the property. He does not help maintain the driveway. He's never pushed snow on the driveway because he doesn't have equipment to push any snow on that driveway. The only time he has ever filled a pothole was when they were getting ready to have a venue there. They only had one wedding, and he went out and filled potholes so his guests wouldn't have to hit the potholes. Like I said, I don't care about that. We're the ones who have to maintain the driveway. He lives over on Marlboro Road now. He doesn't live there. He doesn't care. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I'd like to rebut that. No, no, no. We're not going to go back and forth here. Thank you for everything you said. We appreciate it. We haven't even agreed on it. No, we appreciate it. This is not about a specific. This is about an ordinance. So I appreciate that. I appreciate your time, but we're not going to go back and forth here. All right. Yes, ma'am. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Good evening. My name is Angie Wooten, and I am from the O'Pacon District. I also live on Waynes Lane and own the Airbnb that has been in discussion this evening. Just to sort of give some back history as far as the road and the access is concerned, the road has always been a one-way, a one-lane road. It has been a one-lane road. It has always been a one-lane road. you know there hasn't been any change over all these years that it's been there I think it was put in what maybe I think the 60s or 70s so it's always been that someone has to pull into someone else's driveway and let the other person pass it's just sort of common sense and I think that overall our guests have had no issues with that the issues that you know the neighbors are mentioning I understand however with you know the shot trough family as my husband said they have lived there a very long time and there's there is this sort of you know this protection over the road that has you know over the years become unrealistic you know like chasing down the pizza guy and pulling people people over and using words and vocabulary you know like chasing down the pizza guy and pulling people people over and and blame somebody Catching people with random words and vocabulary which isn't really right. that is extremely unnecessary. So with that being said, the private road, the traffic has decreased tremendously. We have neighbors on the very end of our road who have said, you know, it's like crickets out here since you guys have been gone. Because like my husband said, we have three kids and they all play sports. And I am in and out of that driveway just by myself. I can't tell you how many times a day. My husband does help maintain the road. There's a maintenance agreement with all of the neighbors. My husband and I pay a significant amount of money each year for gravel. I think that they mentioned something about snow. Our neighbors on the end, right next door to Mrs. Case, take care of the snow on our property. So there's been no issue. With that. So moving on to what everyone is going to vote on this evening. I think that the Airbnbs have been a saving grace to rural communities like ours. Number one, for my family alone, it has been a huge sustaining force for our family because income since COVID has been very difficult. And for our family, it's been a huge sustaining force for our family. And for our family, it's been a huge sustaining force for our family. And families have gotten to get creative to make ends meet. And so this for us is not something that is, you know, we're having a good time doing it. This is actually something that's sustaining us financially as a family. As you all know, the short-term rentals are not being taxed at the moment. And as Mr. Pearson mentioned, that map is probably double what you're seeing right now. The local taxes that the local government, the local government, the local government, the local government are missing out on is rumored to be in the millions. When the guests visit our home, it has a positive impact on the economy directly. Since COVID, there were tons of restaurants that closed down. One of our favorite, Nana's Irish Pub, they had to go out of business. That was really heartbreaking, one of many. But when our visitors come to our Airbnb and many others, they are, they're spending their money in, their visitor relief. They're spending it in the restaurants, in the museums, in the boutiques, in the shops. And so all of the local businesses are also being sustained from these. We are a very, very popular place to come and relax. We live in a beautiful, beautiful part of the Shenandoah Valley. George Washington said that this land is the land worth dying for, specifically the Shenandoah Valley and where we are out here in Winchester. I mean, he absolutely loved it for good reason. The private roadways aren't necessary. They are necessary, the private driveways, to be opened up for the Airbnb owners because these are where you get your views. These are where you get your privacy. You know, for example, we had a gentleman stay. He was a lawyer from New York and he came and stayed for three weeks by himself because he wanted to work quietly and peacefully in the neighborhood, or sorry, in the home. So again, those are the things that I would like to mention if, you know, the private road access was removed from Airbnb owners using this, you know, as an income and naturally benefiting the local government as well as the local restaurants, museum shops. I think it would be a massive loss, especially for a place like Lake Holiday where people love to go Airbnb. We have stayed at an Airbnb for the past year or so, and we've been staying here for the last year and we're getting a lot of calls from people that are getting a little bit more of a holiday. So I think that it's important for our city to be evolving with the times and be flexible with the times. You know, we live in an age where things are virtual and people like to travel. We're past the three minutes. Oh, sorry. People like to travel. They don't necessarily want to stay in a hotel anymore. They like that quality time with their families. So I think it's a good decision all around and I hope that you would go for scenario A. Thank you. Thank you. or against this. Okay. I close the public hearing at this time. Discussion among commissioners. Go ahead Ms. Stitt. I used to live off of a private road and you have road agreements and I don't know specifically what there are but any of them will on what they're required to do and how much money and I would be deeply concerned to add a CUP for having the Airbnb when we don't do that on any other business in RA in the home. Like how do, it doesn't seem right to me that we would single out one over others as far as you have to get permission to use a private road. So there are other business farms use private roads. You know we're gonna tell them you can't run your tractor on the private road without getting permission from everyone that lives. I just think we should leave it as by right and there are road agreements to take care of private roads and it's less traffic and I just lean towards A. John. Yeah. I'm just looking at it first. Okay right. Yeah. Okay. Well you almost have to live on a private road and not every private road has road maintenance agreements. I live on one. I live at the tail end. It's two mile long, it's serviced by 21. 21 houses are serviced by and there is not a road maintenance agreement on it and one of the things when you, when you buy a piece of property that's serviced by a private road you you know ahead of time what you're getting into right it's not it's not serviced by a state maintained road so we as all the homeowners we all work together and keep the road plowed and fix the potholes and things of that nature but one of the things that uh that really you know again for 20 years living on a road like that you recognize that when and we live at the tail end of it so i mean i i have to pull off the road more than just about anybody comes through there is the people who live on that road day in day out weekend week out year in year out they recognize it when you're coming through of how you have to pass on a road that's an 11 foot right away it's 11 foot and they you know they pull off and everything but and you can clearly tell when somebody is driving down that road and they have no idea that this is the this is the unsaid agreement that we have on how we how we pass each other on this road that's 11 you know 11 foot wide without without an agreement so um you know that's just one of the things you you when you buy a piece of property you're going to have to pay for it and you're going to have to pay for it and you're going to have to pay for it and you're going to have to pay for it and you're going to have to pay for it that is serviced by a private road there's just some things that you got to get you know you got to you got to sacrifice for having that type of privacy and um you know i think scenario b is the only way we can use this um and move this along and um and allow the the cup to handle the rest looking down does anybody else want to speak yeah and thank you and understand and i'm the same situation mr that is a shared right-of-way all any of the people in there have a share of that right-of-way and it usually can be agreed upon that they will all work together to maintain that right-of-way and part of the right-of-way that i have there's been the subdivision put in there and they have a home owners so shared right of way think of that if you share the right-of-way you need to look out for each other use common sense rarely found anymore we understand that but use common sense respectful to your neighbors and keep up the maintenance on the road anyone else so the process is the process moving forward if we were to choose and recommend option b would every airbnb a short-term lodging would have to submit a cup if it's on a private road if it's zoned ra in or in all right only in our condition house ride park or school bus on j possiamo if we want the route that we need to use the demolition direct route if we want to move it forward we would have to submit an agile before we can review it and protect identify the reliability that it need for the resident a little bit more out in various ways it it would be useful to go anyway to find out the road knives everywhere get rechargeable and there are no fires you won't have reuse right you know but i also understand that there's got to be some rules and guidelines here and i think that when you're talking um maintained versus private then everybody has to be considered and i think option b at least gives a voice to those that can that can go before the planning commission or go before the board of supervisors and voice that concern you know you're not it's not it's not this us or them thing it's laying out the facts and at least then it gives us an opportunity to hear the facts and it gives folks an opportunity to voice their concerns whereas if you have by right then they can they can just do what they want and we've watched how some things have gone in this county when they get a chance to do what they want it can go it can go bad quickly so i really think that the staff's done an excellent job with option b at least giving you some guidelines and getting setting a setting an expectation and then it's it would be on a case-by-case basis so that's my two cents can i comment sure you know i understand the concern and they can how to pass on a private because again i lived on one for over 30 years but they can document that and to people running. This is how you pass. It's a narrow lane. You don't have to take away their right to have an Airbnb. I mean, this is difficult economic times, you know, and like people are trying to save their homes and save their way of life. And I don't think just because you live on a private road, you have less rights than someone that lives on a public road. I mean, I know when I lived on a private road, I had neighbors that were like, we did a Bible study. Well, you can't use the road. We don't want you to do that. And I'm like, well, then you can't have a party. Like, where does it end? Like, they don't want this business on the road. Well, then should a farmer use the road? If, like, my husband runs an eBay store, can UPS go on the road and deliver things? I just think we're opening a can of worms and singling out a business that does not seem fair to me at all. I'm going to counter. I disagree. I think that you're actually giving everybody a fair level playing field here is what you're doing by actually, if it's a private, we're talking private road now. By having that opportunity to at least express and bring forth documentation on whether it's good or it's bad. I mean, I just think it just gives a voice that some people won't have if you do by right. And we're talking already by right. And this is a totally different thing from comparing with farmers. And this might be a question for Wyatt. If we have a cottage business, I know that has to go before. Or what is required on a business? Let me know what we consider a cottage business. Yeah, and unfortunately, I'm not the best person to speak to this, but I'll speak to my knowledge of it since being here. But prior to the code change that created the cottage occupation separately from our home occupations, everything came as a conditional use permit before. Every home occupation came as a conditional use permit before. Planning Commission. Somebody can still do cottage occupations by conditional use permit, but they're more intensive home occupations. Right now, they can get a buy-right business license through our department so long as they don't have more than five customer visits per day and meet some other certain rules and regulations. And so as we were considering the concerns related to traffic generation, we did note that buy-right, somebody could operate a home occupation with five customer visits per day, which equates to 10 trips without any other oversight. And I think Mrs. Branda had mentioned that there aren't other uses in the RA that are regulated as it relates to private easements, and that's correct. The only one that is a standout is the special event facilities, and that's by conditional use. And there is a requirement that they either prove that their private easement is allowed to be used in this manner or they get neighbor sign-off. But special event facilities, can be permitted in the hundreds of customers per day realm, so it's definitely not comparable. But does that answer your question? Yes, it does, yes. Okay. I agree with Molly, and the fact that people have rights, that's on their deed. You have the right to use that little road or whatever it is. You have a right to use that. And the B&B person has a right to use it. And the B&B person has a right to use that road. Why does he have to, to have a conditional use permit, do you know what it costs to do a conditional use permit? It's very expensive. I understand. Time consuming. Did you see how many were on that map? I did. Hey, Kay, can you turn your microphone on? I apologize. I'm sorry, I thought I had it on. Next button. Okay. Someone told me to push a different button before. Well, I will reiterate. I agree with Molly, and I believe that when people have a right of way on their deed, that they have a right to use the roads and make somebody have a conditional use permit, which is very expensive and very time consuming. Lots of things can go wrong. It doesn't mean they'll even get the permit, and there's so many on private roads already. And apparently, we're not hearing about private roads. There's problems from all of these. So I'm in favor of not having conditional use permits. Okay. Anybody on the right side? Yeah. Well, first off, I don't necessarily think that we are in a role here of taking away homeowners' rights. I think the idea is when you buy a piece of real estate that is serviced by a private road, you are giving up certain rights on what you can or cannot do with that property. So it's not us taking them away. It's what you give up as a result. It's what you give up as a result of buying something that's not serviced by a state-maintained road. And the right of way that are on deeds are the right to ingress and ingress on your own personal property and what you conduct as your own personal livelihood on your own personal property. Not true. We are talking about private right of ways. We are not talking about state-maintained roads. It's a big difference. And that's the only difference that we're discussing here is if you are not serviced by a state-maintained road, can you operate this sort of a business on a road that's not state-maintained? That's the only question that we're answering here tonight. And the idea is you give up that right when you buy that property on not a state-maintained road. You give it up yourself. So we're not taking anything away. Mr. Triplett, I see you raise your hand. I wouldn't think I was giving up anything because what you're actually getting is a right-of-way to your property. Yep, that's correct. You're not giving up. You're getting a right-of-way. It's written. It's filed at the courthouse. That's right. So you know what you're with right-of-way on the deed. So I have a big question about a lot of this because, like I said, I've been involved. Right. Anybody else on this side? Anybody else on this side? Me. Okay. Sorry. Oh, I'm sorry, Ms. Griselle. If you're going to require a CUP for a private road, I mean, would it make sense for everyone? Well, that's currently how it is. So that's the whole point of the ordinances. Well, that's the whole point of the ordinances, the whole point of the ordinances, trying to come up with something of standard. That's the point. Now, the Board of Supervisors asked us to have a discussion about it. Mr. Lugway is over there taking notes. Yes. I hope you have two pads of notes over there. So, you know, we're discussing ordinance here. So we've got option A and we've got option B. If we don't have any more discussion, I'm going to ask for a vote. I'm going to start with option A. And I'll start with Mrs. Brannon. Brannon, yes, for option A. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You know, do we need a motion, Rod? A motion would be appropriate, and specifying the specific scenario would also be desirable. I'll make the motion. Okay. I'd like to make a motion that we approve option A, that I do not. I do not give up my rights by living on a perfect road. Okay. Just speak that out. The motion's simple. You're making a motion for option A. Option A. To pass option A. Do we have a second? Second. Okay. We've got a motion for option A, and we've got a second. I will start with Mrs. Brannon. Mrs. Brannon. Brannon, yes. Brumback, yes. Dawson, yes. Hornbill, no. Manuel, no. Ozel, yes. Triplett, no. Chairman votes no. So, what do we got? We got a 4-3. We got a 4-4. We got a tie. We got a tie. Okay. So. That's a hung jury. Hung jury. I know. Hey, look. It's going before the board of supervisors. They want an opinion. They're getting an opinion. They're also getting a lot of information here, so. Just one second. Send the tie for change. All right. Send the tie for change. Send the tie forward. Let's vote on B. Right. Yeah. But if they both fail, they'll be right. Yeah. Those recommendations are not passed. At the event of a tie, I think Robert's rules would say that the motion fails, and so the commission would still, it'd still be preferred the commission provide some form of a recommendation to the board. Okay. Well, we're going to start with, I'd like to have a motion for option B. Let's get this document. Mr. Chairman, I so move we adopt option B. Do I have a second? Yes. Yes. Okay. Mr. Triplett. Yes. Mr. Triplett votes yes. So, no. Manuel, yes. Horned, yes. Jewell, yes. I'm sorry. I'm last. Dawson, no. Brombeck, no. Brennan, no. Jewell, Chairman, yes. So, you got it documented, 4-4. Now, we need to make a, we may need to make a recommendation to the board. To the Board of Supervisors. Is that correct? Or do we say, are we good? We good right here? The commission failed to recommend either one. Perfect. So, now, now it's back to the Board of Supervisors for them to make a decision. If they want to send it back, they can send it back, but it needs to be done. Okay. There we go. So, I think it's the first time I've been involved with a tie, so this, okay. Well, this will, Are you saying it's fun? I mean, you look like you're having fun. Yeah, I'm having a ball. I mean, bring it. That's what we're here for. Okay. So, this will go before the Board of Supervisors on September 28th. Is that correct, Mr. Pearson? Yes, sir. That is correct. Okay. We'll move forward then. Next item up is Mr. Bishop regarding rezoning of number 0522 Greystone Properties. Chairman, I need to use. All right. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Mr. Mayo? Is that fun? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. There won't be no towel. That's the public process in action. Nerds like me love that. Anyway. Moving on to your next item. This is, this is rezoning 0522 for Greystone Properties, LLC. Those familiar with the history of this property may recall it as the Willow Run rezoning from back in the day. Specifically, though, this is a minor amendment that would expand the current language regarding the age-restricted nature of this property. You can see the property on the screen to your left highlighted in yellow right now. It is bound on the south by Cedar Creek Gray. That's where their primary entry point is. Worth noting that on the north end, they do have proffered right-of-way for the future Jewelry Early Drive extension out to Route 37. That remains in the proffer. I just note it for locational purposes. No other provisions in the rezoning. This is a minor proffer amendment. No other provisions in the proffers are being asked to be changed. My understanding, fairly simply put, is the prospective developer of the property has had some experiences in the past with age-restricted that they would like more clearly defined in the proffers. I can read that, these actual proffers to you in more detail if you wish. But basically, simply put, they've added a lot more to the property. I can read that, these actual proffers to you in more detail if you wish. But basically, simply put, they've added a lot more to the property. But basically, simply put, they've added a lot more to the property. So age-restricted per the new proffer shall mean all occupied residential units shall be occupied by at least one person, 55 years of age or older, and all other residents must reside with a person who is 55 years of age or older and be a spouse, a cohabitant, or an occupant's child of 19 years of age or older, or provide primary physical and economic support to the person who is 55 years of age or older. Notwithstanding this limitation, a person hired to provide live-in, long-term, or terminal health care of a person who is 55 years of age or older for compensation may also occupy a dwelling during any time such person is actually provided such care, and two, guests under the age of 55 shall be permitted for periods of time not to exceed 60 total days in any calendar year. If title to any lot shall become vested in any person under 55, years of age, by reason of dissent, distribution, foreclosure, or operation of law, the age restriction set forth in Section 1 shall not work a forfeiture or reversion of title, but rather such person thus taking title shall not be permitted to reside on such lot until such person shall have attained 55 years of age or otherwise satisfies the requirements set forth herein. However, notwithstanding the foregoing limitations, a surviving spouse shall be allowed, allowed to continue to occupy the dwelling without regard to age, and the foregoing limitations shall apply to any tenant who resides in any dwelling offered for lease by the owner thereof. So, simply put, it lays out in much greater detail how the age restriction will be applied, protects surviving spouses, makes sure that decedents or beneficiaries of a will aren't going to move in and be underage and that sort of thing, but that is the extent. The second is the change to the proffer. This one actually is not a public hearing because it's considered a minor proffer revision. I can take any questions you may have. We also have Mr. Moan here representing the applicant from Greenway, as well as the property owner, Mr. Wilkins. Any questions for Mr. Bishop? Okay. Can I just make a comment? Yes, ma'am. This is being updated to match more of the federal, regulation, correct? That's what we read. As not being an expert in the federal regulation and also pinch hitting for Tyler on this, I'm not certain on that, but that's correct. I'll say yes. Sorry. So, it makes sense. Any questions for Mr. Moan? Mr. Wilkins? Just say hi to you, Mr. Moan. All righty. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Okay. This is not a public hearing, so just a discussion among the commissioners. Do we have any discussion or any issues? It's kind of like flat after what we just went through, you know? So, you want to argue a little bit? Yeah, I'd like to. You know, little discussions are good. Okay. Let's go with the… John, my comment is it's been a long time in the making. We've waited a long time for this. Yep. Thank you. All right. I need a motion to approve this. Mr. Chairman, I'll make a motion to approve rezoning 0522 for the Greystone properties. Second. Second. Okay. We got a motion and a second. I will start. I've been picking on Ms. Brannon. I'll start with you. Brannon, yes. Brumbach, yes. Dawson, yes. Ornith, yes. Ozil, yes. Triplett, yes. And Zillow, yes. And Zillow, yes. And Zillow, yes. And the Chair votes yes. Okay. The motion is approved. Thank you. All right. Next item up, Mr. Pearson. Do we have anything other under? Nothing to note as far as current planning… No, go ahead. Nothing to note as far as current planning applications for the Commission. I would note the introductory slide for our presentation spoke a little bit to our Northeast Land Use Plan updates. And so, we are targeting dates for our public meetings related to those. October 18th at Jordan Springs Elementary and October 25th at Stonewood. Please put those dates on your calendar. The topic is going to be the same on both, so don't feel any need to attend both. We're just trying to make sure we have availability for everybody. And then lastly, for those of you who received the email about getting a new email address, IT is still here and they're going to help you if you have any issues getting logged in here at the tail end of the meeting. But happy to answer any questions you all have on any topic. You said October 8th and October 25th? 18th and 25th. Okay. So, we're going to be getting those dates on the calendar. So, we're going to be getting those dates on the calendar. And then, we're going to be getting those dates on the calendar. So, we're going to be getting those dates on the calendar. So, we're going to be getting those dates on the calendar. So, we're going to be getting those dates on the calendar. So, we're going to be getting those dates on the calendar. And then, we're going to be getting those dates on the calendar. I wanna start by acknowledging that 80 supports Christiansabel's cause for interest, including funding of publishing services for property owners for the date, at which date. Okay. Good evening.
