Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2026-02-18
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=322
========================================================================

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . to speak as much into the mic as I can. But thank you very much for having Stephanie and I here tonight. My name is Caroline VanTerve. I'm here on behalf of the Berkeley Group. And myself and Stephanie will be presenting you all with an update on this effort that the county has been undertaking. We'll definitely get into this later. But as Tyler mentioned earlier, keep in mind, this is what you already have now. The primary focus of this effort was state code compliance and being a more user-friendly document. So keep that in mind. We'll go into more detail about that throughout the evening as well. Before we get going tonight, I just wanted to share a little bit more about Berkeley Group and about my team for those of you who may be new or have not worked with us previously. So Berkeley Group is a local government consulting firm based here in Virginia. And our mission is to partner with public agencies to strengthen operations, improve outcomes, and support the communities they serve. So we exclusively work. with the public sector, local governments all around Virginia. Berkeley Group was actually founded right here in the Valley 15 years ago. And we were initially founded as a planning firm. However, we have expanded our operations quite a bit over the last 15 years to encompass just about every aspect of local government operations. That said, planning and community development work is the bulk of what we are doing as a firm. When we say planning, a lot of that is comprehensive. We're working on comprehensive plan updates and zoning and subdivision ordinance updates like what we're doing for Frederick County. We're working all over the state, everywhere from the northern neck to northern Virginia and quite literally everywhere in between. So happy to be here in Frederick County in the valley where it started, close to home for me. As I said earlier, my name's Caroline. I'm a senior planner with the firm. And I manage this effort in a lot of Berkeley Group's long-range planning efforts. The other two planners on the project team. Who really did the bulk of the work. Where Stephanie and Brooke, tremendous planners, have a lot of zoning expertise. Brooke is not here this evening. But I'll let Stephanie introduce herself. You're not here to learn about me. So I won't eat up too much time. But happy to be here. Hopefully this is a great product for you all. It was a bit of a puzzle. And a little different than what we normally do. So it was, we enjoyed doing it. I drove up from Roanoke on 81 for three hours. Beautiful drive. Thank you for having dinner with us. And we'll get going. So this is where we're headed tonight. We will spend some time giving you all a little bit of an overview of the project. What was included in the scope of this project. The process to date and then the timeline that we've been on. We'll go over the expected outcomes. What you as a planning commission, board, and certainly what the community can expect. Out of this project. And then of course we'll be diving into the zoning and subdivision ordinances. Again, they're updates. This is not a completely new document. There are no policy changes. And then we should have some time at the end for questions and discussion. So I know that we gave you hundreds of pages worth of material. So just want to be sure that everybody knows what they got from us in advance of this meeting. Of course you all have the zoning and the subdivision ordinances. That's pretty self-explanatory. You also received two summary memos. One for the zoning ordinance. One for the subdivision ordinance. If you look at nothing else, please read the summary memos. They go into a lot more detail than we'll have time to get into tonight. About why we changed certain things. The specific state code sections that you'll see that were introduced. Because of the diagnostic findings. And then some more detail about the overall structure. So please take a look at that. Between now and the public hearings. If you have not done so already. And then you also have what look like two Excel spreadsheets in your packets. That's what we call a changes matrix. And it essentially has a column with all of your current ordinance sections. And then a column with where that content can be found in the updated ordinance. That's really more of an aid for staff. But we wanted to make sure that the planning commission and the board have that tool as well. So you can see, you know, if a constituent asks for a new ordinance. Or if you would like to look up something in either of the ordinances. You know exactly where to go. So tonight, Tyler and I touched on these a little bit already. But we want to make sure that this group understands that this is a technical update. And not a policy rewrite. The county does intend to make those policy changes at a later date. After the comprehensive plan at work has been done. So that way the goals and the values you establish. Related to land use in your comprehensive plan. Can then be implemented by your zoning ordinance. That will come in the future. Right now is just the technical stuff. Understanding the goals of the update. And how the reorganization achieves those goals. Knowing how to track old to new sections. We won't get into that as much tonight. Your crosswalk has more of that. And then of course, you know, we are here for you. If you have questions, comments, concerns. You know, this is the one time that Stephanie and I will be able to get to. And we will be with you all before public hearings. Please ask them. It will be a lot of us talking. But we do love to answer questions as well. So if you see something. If you have a concern. Please share that with us. And we would be happy to address it. So this is what Stephanie and I and what staff are looking for from you all. As we are going through this tonight. The first question. Is this an accurate reflection of what we already have in place? Can the public understand it? And then the second question. Is this a more user friendly document for the community? And then of course, please ask us any questions that you would like answered before the public hearing. So these were the four key parts of this update process. First reorganizing and streamlining the existing subdivision and zoning ordinances. Part of being a part of having a user friendly ordinance is making sure that everything is very straightforward. This is a very straightforward process. It reduces the amount of staff time and headache that is spent on trying to find things and make determinations for property owners. It reduces the amount of time that a community member has to spend looking for something. And it certainly helps you all as a planning commission and the board of supervisors as well. So that's the key piece of it. We've also updated the ordinance for compliance with state code. The diagnostic that Tyler mentioned earlier was the big driver. And the big catalyst for the state code updates. And I do have a little bit of a refresher on the diagnostic and on state code in a few slides for those of you who are new to the group. Or for those of you who were on the group when we had the work session and just need a refresher because it has been a little while. We also removed any redundant or conflicting language. There are a couple of instances in your current ordinances where the same provision is repeated multiple times throughout the ordinance. There are also instances where you have language that conflicts. That creates a problem when it comes to administration. That creates problems for the community when they are trying to understand what is expected of them when they are going through an application process. So that was very important to address. And then last but not least, converting narrative standards into tables or flow charts where appropriate. And updating outdated graphics. If you read through your ordinance like you're reading a book, you'll see that there are a lot of things that are being updated. And that's a big part of the process. And you'll see that a lot of text is in very lengthy paragraph form. It is an ordinance. It's not meant to be a story. However, you know, in that format, things can get lost very easily. You know, if something can be converted into a table, that's great. If a process can be better explained through a flow chart, that's great. There are graphics that were created in 1991 that probably have not seen the light of day since we updated those to help the community, you know, get a visual representation of what is happening. And then you can see the actual representation of some of the more complex pieces that you have in your ordinance. So those of you who were on the planning commission in the fall of 2024, remember that Berkeley group was here to review the results of the zoning diagnostic with you. This is a really comprehensive report. It evaluated your zoning ordinance's compliance with the standards in the code of Virginia. We also made some just general recommendations for organization, for structure, policy, and for the organization. So if you're in the planning commission, you can go to the planning commission website and look at the zoning diagnostic report. And you can see that there are a lot of things that are being updated. I don't think we have a lot of information. So if you're in the planning commission, I want to make sure you have that. There are a lot of things that are being updated. We also have a lot of information about how to use the zoning structure policy recommendations were included in that report, as well as other general recommendations for how to improve alignment between the comprehensive plan and your zoning ordinances. If you have not seen that document, or if you haven't looked at it in a while, I know staff would be happy to get you a copy of that. That's a really helpful document to read just for some background context should you feel like you need it. That kind of led into the zoning and subdivision ordinance reorganization and update, which we ended up doing earlier today. And so, just to kind of take a moment to reflect on those. I think the zoning question is, you know, what are the best things that we can do? THAT DOCUMENT OR IF YOU HAVEN'T LOOKED AT IT IN A WHILE, I KNOW STAFF WOULD BE HAPPY TO GET YOU A COPY OF THAT. THAT'S A REALLY HELPFUL DOCUMENT TO READ JUST FOR SOME BACKGROUND CONTEXT SHOULD YOU FEEL LIKE YOU NEED IT. THAT KIND OF LED INTO THE ZONING AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE REORGANIZATION AND UPDATE WHICH WE INITIATED LAST SUMMER. SPENT QUITE A BIT OF TIME ON THAT. DRAFTED SOME GRAPHICS ALONG WITH IT. HAD THREE REVIEW COMMITTEE MEETINGS PERIODICALLY THROUGHOUT LAST YEAR. AND THEN ONCE THE ORDINANCES WERE DONE, WE PROVIDED THE ZONING ORDINANCE FOR LEGAL REVIEW. BERKELEY GROUP HAS A LAND USE ATTORNEY THAT WE WORK WITH OUT OF ROANOKE. HE REVIEWED THE DRAFT ORDINANCE IN ITS ENTIRETY FOR COMPLIANCE WITH STATE CODE. AND YOUR COUNTY ATTORNEY DID THE SAME. SO YOU CAN REST ASSURED THAT THIS UPDATED ORDINANCE HAS BEEN VETTED VERY THOROUGHLY FOR STATE CODE COMPLIANCE. SO TAKE FULL CONFIDENCE IN THAT MOVING FORWARD. THAT BRINGS US TO OUR WORK SESSION THIS EVENING. AND THEN PARTICIPATION. PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE ANTICIPATED THIS SPRING. WHAT IS THAT ON THE LEGAL REVIEW? WE GOT SOME COMMENTS FROM THE THIRD PARTY ATTORNEY THAT WERE MOSTLY POLICY RELATED. SO WE MADE A LIST OF THOSE ITEMS AND WE'LL BE WORKING THROUGH THOSE CHANGES WHEN WE GET INTO THE POLICY CONCERNS. APPRECIATE ANDREW COMING IN AND JUMPING INTO THIS AND MID PROJECT AND HELPING US WITH COMPLETING THE LEGAL REVIEW FROM THE COUNTY'S END AS WELL. CAN I JUST SAY A REAL QUICK WORD ABOUT THAT? JUST TO AMPLIFY. IT'S NOT THAT WE PAID AN OUTSIDE ATTORNEY TO DO ALL THIS AND THEN I DID IT ALL AS WELL. MY BACKGROUND IS WITH TWO SPECIFIC LOCALITIES AND NOT A TON OF LAND USE. JUST MAKING THAT CONFESSION HERE. MR. LOCKABEE THAT THE BERKELEY GROUP WORKS WITH WORKS WITH JURISDICTIONS ALL OVER THE COMMONWEALTH FOR YEARS AND YEARS. SO HE'S SEEN AND DEALT WITH A LOT OF DIFFERENT ZONING ORDINANCES, A LOT OF DIFFERENT SUBJECTIONS. SO HE HAS A SORT OF MUCH MORE HOLISTIC UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT'S OUT THERE. WHAT THE POSSIBILITIES ARE, WHAT THE STUMBLING BLOCKS, THE PITFALLS ARE. SO HE DID THE SUBSTANTIVE WORK AND I SORT OF REVIEWED WHAT HE DID AND HAD SOME ADDITIONAL COMMENTS ON TOP OF IT. BUT MY REVIEW WAS VERY LIGHT COMPARED TO HIS WHICH WAS VERY, VERY THOROUGH. BUT I DO THINK THE END RESULT WAS A PRETTY THOROUGH VETTING FROM A LEGAL STANDPOINT OF WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO BE HEARING ABOUT TONIGHT. WITH THAT, JUST WANT TO HIGHLIGHT THE POSSIBILITIES OF THE STUMBLING. THE PITFALLS ARE. THE PITFALLS ARE. THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR TIME AND THE EXPERTISE TO SERVE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE. THANK YOU TO SUPERVISOR LIERO, CHRIS MON AND OF COURSE STAFF FOR ALL OF THE TIME THAT THEY SPENT ON THIS PROJECT. THESE FOLKS ARE ALSO A GREAT RESOURCE IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE CONVERSATIONS THAT WE HAD WITH THESE FOLKS OR IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PRIOR TO PUBLIC HEARINGS. So what are the expected outcomes? When this ordinance is adopted and it goes into effect, what can you as a planning commission and what can the community expect from this process? So first, obviously, a more streamlined and user-friendly ordinance format. Hopefully, you'll find that requirements are much easier to locate, that things like use permissions, use standards, processes for violation, penalties for violation, hopefully all of those are much more straightforward and clear to find than they are currently. This also has the effect of easing staff time spent on ordinance interpretation and administration. Certainly, that is a big part of what staff does, but all of the day-to-day things add up, and being able to ease staff time spent on interpreting and administering the ordinance can be really helpful and can help them focus on some of your bigger picture long-term projects in cases that need review. Of course, enhancing clarity and transparency for property owners. What I found working in localities around the state on zoning is that a lot of people do not understand that there is quite a bit in zoning that is required by state law to include. They think that the county or the city just makes things up and has them in their zoning ordinance, and they don't understand that in Virginia, you know, the state requires that local governments include certain policies, certain time frames, processes, and other things in zoning. And so by having an ordinance that's fully compliant with state code and that is clearly citing those references, that improves transparency for the community and can also serve as an education piece. Again, achieving full compliance with state code, preparing the county to efficiently address policy items in a future phase. Again, the goal of streamlining, doing all of this organization state code compliance now is so that by the time you all are ready to dive into the policy items, you can start to do that a lot more efficiently and can have those items as your full focus. And then with that, working towards a business-friendly and predictable ordinance framework, certainly an aspect of being a business-friendly community, a county that is welcoming and open to business is having strong and clear land use regulations. And while a lot of that does come with policy, again, creating that clear and predictable ordinance framework now will go a long way. And I think that's a big part of what we're doing. And helping the county and helping businesses in the long run. So again, what phase one includes? Ordinance restructuring and organization, edits for state code compliance, introducing tables, graphics, flow charts, where us and staff deemed it was appropriate to do so, removing redundant language, and then edits as needed for clarity and brevity. Again, what this phase does not include are policy changes. And by policy changes, we mean that we're not only doing policy changes, but we're also making changes to the code. So we're not only doing policy changes, but we're also making changes to the code. And by policy changes, we mean anything related to your uses, whether that's use permissions, use definitions, use standards, changes to your zoning districts, so setbacks, lot sizes, maximum height, landscaping, screening, buffering standards, all of that is what you have currently. None of that was changed. There were no new zoning districts that were introduced. Zoning districts were not removed. Any major processes that you have now are remaining the same. So if a waiver is in place, that waiver is still there. You know, please, please hear us when we say that we did spend quite a bit of time with staff on our own, with the attorney, with the review committee, going through the updated ordinance with a fine-tooth comb and making sure that as things were reorganized, that we were not losing content. So this has been very thoroughly vetted. You know, certainly, please bring up your questions and concerns if you have them. But we spent a lot of time, I can say that your staff did as well, making sure that this is accurately, accurately keeping all of the policy that you have now. So this slide is just a quick refresher on the zoning ordinance diagnostic. Again, Virginia is a Dillon Rule state. That just means that local governments in Virginia only have the authority that is granted to them by the state government. And so if the General Assembly adopts a piece of legislation that has to go in a zoning ordinance, the county has to comply. If the state tells you that you need to address a topic, in a comprehensive plan, or in a subdivision ordinance, Frederick County has to address that appropriately. So this diagnostic report that we did for the county was really getting into that, taking a look at what pieces of state code the county already has in their ordinance, and what pieces of state code the county does not currently have and needs to add. So these pie charts will look pretty familiar. I'll just go through them quickly. This first chart here, This first chart here, This first chart here, shows out of the sections of state code that pertain to zoning, the percentage of those that apply to Frederick County, whether they are mandatory for inclusion in your zoning ordinance, optional for inclusion in your zoning ordinance, or don't apply to Frederick County for whatever reason that might be. So out of those state code sections, around 60% are mandatory for inclusion, 22% are optional, and then about 20%, again, don't apply to Frederick County, whatever the reason might be. and then about 20%, again, don't apply to Frederick County, whatever the reason might be. don't apply to Frederick County, and then about 20%, again, don't apply to Frederick County, The second chart here is really what you want to focus on, and really what we focused on in this update, and it shows the percentage of the mandatory sections that are currently included in the zoning ordinance. So that blue piece on the right, those are the percentage of mandatory provisions of state code that the county zoning ordinance currently has, so 44%. that the county zoning ordinance currently has, so 44%. The county zoning ordinance currently partially complies with about 20% of those mandatory provisions, and then does not comply with 37%. This chart is here, it's not really one that is relevant to this update, but it just shows the usage of optional provisions of state code, so again, the current zoning ordinance includes about a third of those optional provisions, doesn't include around 40%, 43%, and then partially includes about a quarter. With optional provisions of state code, a lot of the decision and the discretion that localities have on whether or not to incorporate those would constitute a policy decision, and so, you know, if something was not already included, you know, especially if Berkeley Group would not recommend including it for whatever reason, we kind of left that to the side, noted it for staff to address at a later date. I'll go through this pretty quickly, and then I'll go to the next slide. So, basically, too, Berkeley Group's recommended improvements for phase one are on the left, and then the intended result is on the right. State code compliance, of course, you'll hear us and staff say it over and over again, but again, this is really important in protecting the county in the event of a legal challenge, and it prevents what in legalese is often called arbitrary and capricious decision-making. It just basically promotes consistency in decision-making across applications and for different property owners. Seeking to stream this information, we have a lot of things to do. We've talked about the use of tables, graphics, using multilevel lists in lieu of paragraphs. That's intended to improve readability, reduce the number of interpretations needed by staff, and expedite the process of future text amendments. Introducing a use matrix to identify all uses and permissions in one place. I have a slide in a few minutes dedicated to just that, but a use matrix is a best practice that a lot of localities in Virginia are now moving towards. This improves readability, also helps expedite future text amendments, and also is a good exercise in making sure that any internal conflicts or redundancies that you might have as related to your uses are eliminated. And then certainly organizing like provisions of the ordinance together. It doesn't make sense to have, you know, a site plan requirements in one article and then some more site plan requirements in another article. Or rezoning requirements in another article. And then CUP requirements in another article when the process is essentially the same in a lot of ways. And so we've done some work to organize those provisions together. Again, improving readability, improving transparency for the community, saving staff time and the work that they have to do. So on the next few slides, you will see some examples of how we have put these goals into practice in the updated ordinance and the new rules. So we've done some work to organize these new ordinances. The first one, again, state code. For sake of time tonight and because there is quite a lot in state code, we are not going to get into all of the different sections and what they say and what was introduced and what the county already have. That's what your summary memo is for. That goes into a lot more detail with the specific state code sections. So you can see on your screen here, this is how state code gets incorporated. You know, at Berkeley group, instead of taking that state code text verbatim and dropping it into a zoning ordinance, the county can comply simply by referencing the state code section. This is good because it cuts down on the amount of lengthy legalese that you have in your zoning ordinance, but it also is beneficial because when the general assembly goes and makes revisions to those laws over time, which they will and they have, the county can still comply and they don't have to initiate a text amendment for every single thing. So you can see that the county is already in the zoning ordinance. So you'll see there, the examples that I put on the screen were specific state code sections that we identified in the diagnostic as needing inclusion. We cited it, said that the county would comply pursuant to X section, then moved on. Again, using tables instead of text where appropriate, you can see a before and after on your screen. I know it is a little hard to read, at least towards the back of the room, but the example there is from the TM district. That is really what all of your zoning districts look like. But that is showing the design requirements for the district. You can see that it's long, that there are use performance and design standards buried within the district regulations. So it goes from talking about minimum lot size in TM and then to maximum height for office buildings and then sandwiched in the middle. So the first thing that we looked at in the district standards is standards for outdoor storage. That can be hard for a developer to find what they are looking for. It can make it confusing for a community member. And then it just, again, makes it time consuming to find and compare standards. So what we did for those zoning districts is we took all of the numbers and we put them in a table. And that's what you can see on the right-hand side of your screen. That is all the same. It doesn't look the same. It is the same. So we put them in a table. The development standards that you see there in B, we relocated those to other articles as appropriate. So if someone wants to know what is required for outdoor storage, they can go to the outdoor storage section and they can see all of the requirements that the county has in one place. The other advantage of this table is that it makes it very easy to compare similar districts. So what we've done here is you can see that there's a column for TM. But there are also columns for M1, M2, and E. All of your industrial district standards are now in the same table. When you go to phase 2 and you're making policy updates, this is a really helpful exercise in being able to take a look at this and say, are the district standards in the zoning districts meeting the vision or the intent for development that we have in this district? If not, what needs to change? Are there too many similarities between the different zoning districts and we need to change something? You know, it should as well be a question of what is required for the development of the district. And that's what we're doing. So is the zoning district be phased out? Is this not facilitating the type of development that we'd like to see in these areas in Frederick County? And so this is really good for that phase 2 update that you'll have in the future. This before and after relates to the use matrix that I mentioned on a previous slide. Again, I know that top line is probably impossible to read, at least for me. But it is basically a list of all of the permitted districts. And I'm going to go through that. And I'm going to go through the list of all of the permitted uses in a district. Again, every zoning district in your current ordinance has these lists. It lists out all of the uses that are permitted by right and then with a conditional use permit. It's very lengthy. It creates a lot of redundancy. What we found in localities before is that sometimes when a text amendment is made to add a use or to remove a use, sometimes a use is added twice or sometimes it is not added at all when it should have been. That is a problem. So as a best practice, we have introduced what we call a use matrix or a use table that's at the bottom of the screen. So again, I know it's hard to read. I apologize for that. But on the left-hand side of the screen in the gray column, it lists all of the uses in alphabetical order. And then each of the columns in the use table at the head of the column, that corresponds with the zoning district. So RA, RP, MH1, so on. In the boxes, it will simply say P if a use is permitted. If it's permitted conditionally. And then if there's nothing in the cell, that means that use is prohibited in the zoning district at the head of the column. So you can see there that it's very easy to compare different uses. If a property owner says, I want to open a farm brewery, is that permitted in my zoning district? All they have to do is find that use, look over and say, yes, I can have that if I am in the RA district. And then if they're not permitted in the zoning district, they can say, yes, I can have that if I am in the RA district. On the far right-hand column, too, there is a reference to the pertinent section with use performance standards, if there are any for that use. Again, those use standards are just regulations above and beyond what may be required by the base district for that use. So again, the person who would want to open a farm brewery, they can look across, understand that they can have it if they're in RA. They can look over and understand that there are more standards that apply. So again, if they're in the RA district, they can look over and say, yes, I can have that if I am in the RA district. And then if they're in the RA district, they can look across and say, yes, I can have that if I am in the RA district. Also, there's a lot of other ways that apply. So everything is in one place. If you want to make a text amendment in the future, all you have to do is delete or add a letter. Very easy. And in E code as well, once this is adopted and put into E code, everything will be clickable as well, so someone will be able to click that section and it will be right there. You look like you might have a question. Oh, there it is. Indexing, I think you may have just touched on that right now because I know that like AI or, you know, indexing programs will read text better than a diagram, right? So if we change this over to these, and I think these are way, way, way more user friendly. But if you're using like a search function online, is it going to be able to digest a table as well as it would just text? Do you know what I'm saying? I think if you're typing in the search term in E-code, it should still pop up without a problem. If you're talking about putting in a table into chat GPT, I'm not sure how to answer that question. But the table functionality should work the same in E-code PDF online as it would now. The only thing that doesn't read is a static photo, which might be too high level. But that's like a screenshot. It can't read that. As long as it's originated text and it's in a PDF or it's in E-code, any program can read it. How it works, I couldn't say that. So when this is in E-code, you'll be able to start at that agricultural word, that very first one, click and drag all the way over, and it will somehow know when each thing became a new row and when it became a new column as long as it's not a static photo. That's what it can't read. But you'll still be able to search and find PDF or E-code. Yeah. The only thing I was going to add to that is we've been keeping our code publisher, E-code, abreast of all of the draft changes that they've made. And they've assured us along the way that once it's finalized and they're inputting into their system, they're going to be able to add that additional functionality for even sorting some of these tables and all sorts of stuff. So I suspect it's probably going to be their role to focus on kind of the indexing ability of it as well from a search function perspective, since they're the one hosting the actual code. Yeah. We did a demo with E-code early on in this process. And the functionality that we have now is basically just a PDF on a website. What E-code can do with the tables is you can click on a term and it will pop the definition up. And you can click it and it will take you back to the definitions. Same thing with the code references to the additional regulations. So we've never had that kind of functionality. And unless you are a power-heavy user of the ordinance and understand that that use has additional regulation, you know to go back to a different section. A lot of things are lost when people are just commonly looking at it. So the E-code functionality will be a great improvement on this. And that will be something that will happen after it's approved. So it may take several weeks to get that kind of like live on the website. I will also add on the use matrix. We spent a ton of time as a group going through this line by line with the zoning administrator to make sure we weren't losing anything when we combine terms. Because we did a conversion two years ago from standard industrial classification to the next. And we had a lot of issues with the North American industrial classification system. And we didn't do every zoning district. We only did the business and industrial district. So like the RA district has uses that are in NAICS that don't have the same terminology. So we corrected the terminology so it's consistent with our definitions. And then we also had a lot of uses that are definitions that didn't have uses. So we need to make sure was that intentional and that we need to add it back or things like that. And then we had some typos in the convert. And when we sent it to E-code. And we had like. The same use listed two or three times. But it had a typo or a missing element. And it just the way it populated. So we cleaned it up and it shortened and condensed our use list quite a bit. We spent a ton of time on that exercise alone. And everybody on our staff spent time going through it to make sure we didn't lose anything in that process. Okay. That answered all my questions. Thank you. Yeah. I'll just reiterate that whatever you see in the use matrix is the same as what you have now. You know. And certainly looking at things in a different light probably does raise some thoughts or some questions about policy. That's not a bad thing. That's a good thing. However, that's just not being included in the scope of this update. Yes, sir. Tagging on his comment. It might be useful for you folks and our planning staff. To put the document in AI and just test it with asking questions and just seeing how usable it is relative to AI. Because we're going to be in a world where people are just going to ask one question after another. It will automatically search everything. I assume it's akin to your E searching. But testing it against what's out there might be helpful. Yeah. We've explored the possibility of because we do planner of the day service right now where somebody is ready and available to answer questions from 8 to 5 Monday through Friday. We've explored the possibility of like an AI chat pot on the website where people can query the zoning ordinance. Some larger localities are doing it and willing to tolerate the risk associated with a mistake being made. I think most other local governments will get there as time continues and as those models emerge. Our major concern is people make huge investment decisions relative to land based on what we tell them is allowed under the zoning ordinance. And we joke in the office that maybe the AI is even more accurate than our staff can be. And we shouldn't be so concerned. But that's kind of our hesitancy right now. But it's certainly coming whether we like it or not. I'll clarify, too. I apologize if there is confusion on this. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think the confusion on this. E code in and of itself is not an AI platform. It's just the online platform that hosts the zoning ordinance. So it has a search functionality. But it is not AI and the AI chat bot that Wyatt mentioned our chat GPT. So hopefully that helps clear that up. If that wasn't clear. These are some graphics that we created. Again, these are graphics. These are not new graphics. graphics, or at least the one on the left is not. And I guess the one on the right is not either. These are recreating what was in the 1991 zoning ordinance. I think staff had to dig them up. I don't even know that they're in the zoning ordinance currently, but we decided to recreate them, make them look much nicer. They are no longer scans of scans of a Sharpie drawing. They are showing parking lot requirements and road buffer requirements. Again, these are technically not new graphics. The content that they are showing is not new, but they are very helpful in kind of illustrating what is meant when there's reference to an inactive buffer, an access road, a three-foot hedge. There are some other graphics in the zoning ordinance too. That's a really good best practice that we recommend for having a user-friendly ordinance. Certainly if the county wanted to explore adding more graphics at a future phase, they could do that as well. Last but not least, as far as how we have met some of these goals that we've discussed, flow charts for processes, you'll see these throughout Article 3, which is the updated article that addresses permits and applications. This is just an easy visual to show property owners and applicants the steps of a variance process, site plan approval, rezoning, appeal, et cetera. All right. Before we get into the ordinances, just want to pause and just make sure that nobody has other questions. I usually do not talk this much. If I'm ever invited back, I won't talk this much. This is just the nature of the project since there are no policy changes. I think the tables, the use matrix, the graphics all make this so much more user-friendly for citizens who don't have to use this on a regular basis. I just think this is really going to be very helpful to those who want to put an addition on their home and need to understand. Those who want to get chickens in their backyard and want to understand what's required. I mean, it's just a major upgrade. And as someone that uses the zoning ordinance regularly, I find it very, very helpful and look forward to this being adopted. Thank you. So what Stephanie and I will do now is we'll just give you a 30,000 foot overview of the updated structure of the zoning ordinance just so you know how it functions before you are considering it at a public hearing. So your zoning ordinance content can be split into two types of articles. You've got your administrative articles and the design and the development articles. And the article names you see on your screen are not what you have now. They are what is being updated. They are not what you have now. They are what is being updated. And so if you THE MAJOR FIRST PILAR TARGET OF INTERCHANGE. INTERCHANGE. ONE MORE REQUEST, WHAT YOU'RE ONE MORE REQUEST, WHAT YOU'RE FOCUSED ON AND WHY IT'S BEING FOCUSED ON AND WHY IT'S BEING PROPOSED IN THE DRAFT? PROPOSED IN THE DRAFT? YOU PROVIDE THE FOUNDATIONS FOR YOU PROVIDE THE FOUNDATIONS FOR HOW THE ORDINANCE IS ENFORCED HOW THE ORDINANCE IS ENFORCED AND ADMINISTERED BY STAFF. AND ADMINISTERED BY STAFF. IT OUTLINES THE PERMIT AND IT OUTLINES THE PERMIT AND APPLICATION PROCEDURES. APPLICATION PROCEDURES. PRECEDURES FOR MANNING It outlines the authority that the state gives Frederick County to have a zoning ordinance and enforce it. These sets of articles will have a lot of changes related to state code. They're very heavily dictated by state code, so keep that in mind as you're looking through. That is really where the bulk of the changes were made as far as organization and code compliance. And then your design and development articles establish your standards for land use and development. So your uses, design standards, and your zoning district standards. Again, no policy changes. Everything there outside of the state code world is what you currently have now. So really the updates that we made to this set of articles were those for organization, graphics, introducing tables as needed, that sort of thing. You can see for the administrative articles on the left-hand side of your screen, your current zoning ordinance articles. And then where that content got moved in the updated ordinance. So you can see that Article 1 general provisions, TDR, and nonconformities are all more or less the same. They kind of stayed in their own individual articles. Where we started to break things up was with portions of Article 1, your article on BZA, your article on development plans and approvals. All of that got broken up into different articles. Just depending. On what they were addressing. Again, most of the changes to this set of articles were for state code. I'm not going to go into detail about that. If you have a state code question, feel free to ask it. Again, all of that is outlined in your summary memo as well. We did add new language in a couple of places for purposes of ordinance administration and enforcement. I'll say that that language is not required by state code. However, this is just boosting the legal protections for the county and for the staff. It is clarifying how the ordinance is administered. Certain provisions as to who is enforcing what. You know, a lot of legal challenges that localities can see around the state are at times preventable or at least can be made much more cut and dry. If these, you know, legal, more technical things are clearly spelled out in the ordinance. We talked to staff in the review committee about that. Certainly was vetted as part of legal review. And so I just wanted to say that language is new, but it's non-policy and it's intended to help the county. We've also established vested rights, including how the county will make determinations of such rights. For this, I will clarify that the county has a vested rights policy in place. We did not touch that. That is still living and existing as its own policy as it is currently. However, state code. Addresses certain aspects and require certain things related to the vested rights of property owners. And so the changes were really just meant to comply with state code and enhance what you already have now, not replace it. Reorganizing definitions by use type and alphabetical order. So you saw that the use matrix has all of the uses alphabetized in that table. It also further categorizes the uses by use type. So agricultural uses. Industrial uses. Residential uses. Commercial uses. So on. They're all split up by that use type. Alphabetized in the use matrix. The definitions and then the use standards have been organized in the same way. Again, making it very easy for someone to understand what a use is, where it's permitted, if there are standards. As Tyler mentioned, E-code will have the functionality to allow someone to look at all of that at one time. This will also help staff and you all a lot. This will also help staff and you all a lot. This will also help staff and you all a lot. As well. And then codifying the meeting, the option or the requirement in some cases for a pre-app meeting as well as minimum submission standards. Again, this is nothing new. This is already what the county is doing in practice. And I say this because something that we noticed is that there were some inconsistencies in what the zoning ordinance said about an application and what your actual application form is. That creates a problem for staff if the question is raised from a professional. That creates a problem for staff if the question is raised from a professional. So we codified whatever was missing from those forms that the county is doing in practice that you as a planning commission are looking at now. So we codified whatever was missing from those forms that the county is doing in practice that you as a planning commission are looking at now. That is just clearly spelled out in the zoning ordinance. Again, lots of state code changes there. Again, lots of state code changes there. Won't go into detail about that. Happy to answer questions if needed. Now I will take a break from talking at you. I will turn it over to Steve. I will turn it over to Steve. She is going to go over the rest of the development in design articles. Let me ask a question real quick. How do we maintain this once it's adopted? Because even as we speak, our General Assembly is changing things in Richmond. We will obviously do our normal text amendment process. But we will probably need, well, we certainly need to get into the habit of every summer after the General Assembly has acted and after the governor has signed into any new But we will probably need, well, we certainly need to get into the habit of every summer after the General Assembly has acted and after the governor has signed into any new signed into any new law is to go back through this and verify that any changes to state code have been incorporated where appropriate that goes back to what caroline was saying in some cases we just simply reference state code and that will cover us because as state code changes we only have to reference anywhere where we made a direct quote of state code if that state code were to change we'd have to go and amend our ordinance so we were very conscientious about where we listed sections of the state code that hardly change versus sections that may change where we want to reference the state code that's been an ongoing problem in our ordinance there's quite a bit of non-compliance because of that reason so become a regular kind of maintenance item that the department will need to undertake on an annual basis okay but my experience has been the Virginia administrative code does change after legislation is passed so does the Virginia is the Virginia Planning Association is that the name of your professional group yeah I'm an engineer they they publish you know um shortlisted changes for us to keep in mind we're actually very fortunate Mr Bittner treats the General Assembly like his football season and if you ever go past his office during General Assembly you'll hear it running in the background because he listens to each one so um yeah there will be some diligence on our part to keep up with it all but the resources are there to help us and make it simpler so okay I just hate to go through all this and then yeah let it get outdated again we're in the same as the and the planning commission didn't interface very much with our scanning initiative to digitize all of our rezoning and site plan files back from the 70s forward we have to be diligent in ensuring that we don't do this process again in 10 years in the same way we have to be diligent making sure we're not doing another major scanning initiative in 10 years as well okay thank you everybody doing okay we're over halfway done um just a quick note on that that I was going to mention at the end but now seems like a good time um inevitably there will be something that maybe got missed or got snuck in and that happens when we completely rewrite an ordinance or just when we reorganize it's just the nature of the Beast so part of this moving forward is staff will keep track of anything like oh shoot we meant to make it say this word and we said another word um again that happens every time an ordinance is updated and turned completely on its head um but it's staying on top of it much like a CIP or a budget that just become, it's a known thing that you do it every year and it's non-negotiable. You're not alone. We say this to everyone. Hey, look at this every year. No one does it, but that's okay. You just have to try and make it a habit. And maybe in a few years, you'll look up and say, oh my gosh, we've done this three years in a row. So just keeping on, keeping on top of it, letting it be one minor thing that could be a 30 minute hearing versus a six month process and an hour long hearing. It's harder at first to keep up with it day to day, but it will be better in the long run. So, all right, we're going to talk about the second batch of articles, if you will. And you've heard this so many times tonight, you're going to hear it in your sleep. We didn't make policy changes. This is just reorganizing. But what I want to call out about these one, two, three, four, five articles, they are what are generally referred to as development or design articles. This is where almost all of your policy changes are going to happen when you get to that point. So this is the set of articles where you say how far a setback is, where a use is allowed, how much parking a use has to have, how many shrubs and trees it has to have. So this is going to look entirely different than what you have right now, but it's just because it's been organized. Again, I know broken record here or put into charts. But when the time comes, this is going to be the meat of what you all get into and the weeds of what you all want to change. Administration process that has some of it, certainly when you get into waivers and who's approving something. But really, this this is what makes an ordinance an ordinance. When people say, I want to do what I want to do or I don't want to do that. I want to do this. This is where they're coming to look. This is what they're doing. This is what they're doing. This is what they're doing. This is what they're doing. They're coming to see how much of a setback do I have to have? How much pavement do I have to pay for for all this this parking? They want to come in, start a new business. They're going to look to these articles to find out where they can do it. So we've cleaned these up for you. You can see the green on the meant the green to the right side. That's the new that's the proposed on the left is what you have now. So, for example, Article four primary districts, this is your base residential, commercial, industrial. Right now, you have all of that information scattered in Article two, four, five and six. So it's a little all over the place. And the same thing could be said kind of as you go through this. And what I want to call out here as far as ease goes on the left, the very first bullet, Article two, supplementary regulations, parking buffers and regulations for specific uses in our world. That is two completely different things you're talking about. Use regulations. So extra stuff for a very specific use. I'm going to pick on the easy ones. Solar utility scale, solar and data centers. Right. Those are going to have very different use requirements or standards than maybe a vet clinic or an ice cream shop. But then you have things like parking buffers and landscaping. Those might tend to be a little more uniform as you go just based on district. So right now that's thrown in altogether. And your. Current ordinance. And it's hard to find how many shrubs, how many cars, what do I have to follow? So we've broken this out into two articles. And those are the last two you see here on the mint side. Article seven is what are called additional regulations. And then Article eight or your community development standards, parking, landscaping, lighting. And one more note on the additional regulations. Hopefully everyone in the room has come to learn this through your time. Those are more. Akin to what you would put on like a special use permit or a conditional use permit. They're very much same coin, different sides. So just if anyone's unfamiliar with what that might look like, they're closely aligned. And a lot of folks, your additional regulations or your supplemental are the starting point for conditional use permit conditions. Again, just extra attention. It's something that that would require, you know, hours of operation, a deeper setback. So on and so forth. So this is the breakdown of how we've reorganized these articles and what you'll find in them. Just a few changes to note here. A few more times, guys. No policy. Lots of reorganization. Caroline's already touched on a lot of this as she's just gone through and given you the lay of the land on what we've done. So I won't make you listen to that again. Lots of charts where we could put them. You saw a couple of examples of those. We have the use making. We have the policy making. We have the matrix. You saw that example. Both sets of those will be invaluable to you and more importantly the community. It will cut down on staff time. And then we consolidated all of those development and design standards into one place. So you're no longer going into three different articles to know how many shrubs you have to plant. You're going into one place and one place only and everything is there for you. I knew I would do this. I'm clicking here but in my head it's changing. All right. Before we jump to subdivision because I know I just threw this one at you, do we want to pause on zoning? We have about 20 minutes. Do you want to get through subdivision very quickly and then pause for some questions or does anyone have anything on the zoning portion that we've covered tonight, Caroline or myself? Do you have a question on the overlay districts? Yeah. The overlay districts. So if you go to the overlay districts, you'll see the overlay districts. So if you go to current zoning, it references the zoning map to see those. Will that be an option in the new format to you don't have to get out of the E code to then go find a zoning map to then figure out what does that, you know, district overlay, where is that, what does it look like, how large is it? It could reference the zoning map. None of our overlays are adopted. We actually don't have any overlays. I think there's maybe one historic area overlay, but otherwise they're not actually adopted under zoning maps and that may be something we undertake. But certainly we make it available. The root of your question is are we going to be able to link to the zoning map? Yeah, link it because we've got currently three different overlay districts referenced in the zoning ordinance and it says to find it, go to the zoning map. Yeah. The only one that's applied is AP1 and the floodplain one. So, yeah. We can clean that up for sure. Yeah. Make sure that that's linked appropriately. And that would just link to like the county website or something. Yeah, to the PDF that we publish that is the official zoning map. And not to get too in the weeds, but we see it a lot. We're seeing it in another locality. I just want to clarify when we say it's in your ordinance but it's not adopted, it's just not mapped. The regulations still stand. They're real. They're very much in existence. But it doesn't exist on the map yet. So it's just kind of floating in the ether. But they are real regulations and they could happen as soon as someone wants to put that on the map. So just want to clarify what that means. It's not uncommon for the text portion, which is what we've worked on in the map. They're two different things but also the same. So two arms, same body. All right. Anything else before we quickly do subdivision? I want to give you all time to ask questions and questions. And then, okay. All right. Well, see, I'm doing it again. Now I'm doing it the backwards way. All right. You've seen something similar with subdivision or zoning. We did the same thing for subdivision. And we looked at your subdivision ordinance and compared it, again, against state code and best practices to see how you're kind of aligning with that, where there are gaps. So 86% of the Code of Virginia requirements for subdivision. So most of them. And you're, for the most part, partially compliant. 26%, so about a quarter of your subdivision ordinance complies with those requirements. So there are some gaps there. A lot of this, hopefully not panic in your eyes, it can be outdated references. It can be something as minor as, say, an example that we found in yours. Code of Virginia requires that district or county have a separate sub-division ordinance. And that's what we're looking at. So that's what we're looking at. Code of Virginia requires that dam break inundation zones be platted. That's missing from the subdivision ordinance now. So just because it's not compliant doesn't mean it's earth shattering or that anyone should lose sleep over it. A lot of the times it's very minor stuff. But we did find a few examples. And then you're using about half of the optional provisions that Code of Virginia allows for you to. You've also seen a chart like this. The recommendations that came from that diagnostic to pump directly into this phase one were, of course, ensuring compliance with Code of Virginia, making sure that all the references are up to date, they're there should they need to be, that they are just a reference and not an enumerated list of regulations that could become outdated. And then putting in the missing mandatory provisions goes without saying this is a protection for the county through and through to make sure that it's transparent and everybody knows what's at stake. Thank you. And everybody knows what's expected of them on both sides, developer and county. It clarifies some standards and makes it a little easier to understand. Subdivision is its own animal. It's pretty straightforward if you work with it. A lot of it can be run of the mill, boiler plate, same everywhere you go. It's not as unique as zoning can be and is. But we did clean that up to try and help make it a little more user friendly. And what types of sub-divisions are there? And what's required of you should you want to pursue one? And then, of course, we reorganized. Did you want to say anything? Yeah, I was going to add that early on in the zoning ordinance update, we realized that a lot of the elements that are contained in our zoning ordinance are typically contained in subdivision ordinances. And while we tried to kind of not shift things around, we felt that it was most appropriate and relevant to go ahead and tackle the subdivision ordinance concurrently because so many of the standards in our zoning ordinance should be in the subdivision ordinance. Things like motor vehicle maintenance, things like that. So we ended up doing a work order change kind of early on in the project, adding that piece, and then they did this kind of concurrently. So we're kind of getting both of the key elements of the planning department's job, which is code and ordinance of the subdivision zoning, fixed at the same time because it was absolutely relevant to do it together. And that's kind of why they're very similar but different. And if you work with the subdivision ordinance, it was evident that it was going to be a little bit different. And if you work with the subdivision ordinance, it was evident that we were out of compliance in a number of cases and needed to clean that up relatively quickly. All right. So this is a layout of subdivision. It's a little bit shorter than your zoning ordinance, both in article and page count. Just to quickly give you an overview of what each of these are, hopefully they're a bit self-explanatory. Article 1 is your basic information. Your legal authority. The purpose. Overall applicability. Lots of Code of Virginia references here. Article 2, very similar to the zoning ordinance. This is where everything administration-wise is housed. Who's doing what. The roles of each group. Designated agent. Subdivision agent. So all that's housed in administration. You also find enforcement here. Mirrors. Zoning ordinance layout. It's just subdivision specific. Article 3 are the standards. So what is required? Block size. Access. That sort of thing. Article 4, improvements and guarantees is the shortest article out of both of them. It's basically just one paragraph. And it points back to your adopted monetary policy. The name is escaping me right now. But what this article gets at is it references required Code of Virginia sections as far as bonding goes. Code of Virginia is very specific about what you can and can't do. And how much. And when it's released. And all that. But then you also have very thorough county adopted monetary policy as well. So when you open the subdivision ordinance and you go to Article 4, it's just a short itty-bitty paragraph that references those two other bodies of text. So it's not listed over and over again. If you have questions about that, sure. Is that 4 or is that? That's 4. But that's 9. That's a wrong number. Yeah. It's 4. It should be 4. All right. Thank you. 4, 5, 6. Thank you. You're welcome. No, thank you. And then next up, not 10, but 5, plats. This houses everything as far as what should be included on a plat and then the process for that approval and recordation. And then last but not least, definitions. Just a quick note on definitions. We did clean these up quite a bit. We're going to try to get it to align with the zoning ordinance. So the way it's currently written, there are some conflicting definitions. There could be a definition for water bottle in zoning and then there could be another one in subdivision. So we just want to make sure that those two are jiving, everybody's saying the same thing and cleaning those up. So some change is there but not policy. I'm not going to get this right. I'm going to just keep moving along here. All right. So just another quick breakdown. We won't spend too long here. Lots of parallels. But again, the consistent thing with your sweet, sweet little ordinance is that it is all over the place and anything you need is probably broken up in a couple different places. So again, just putting like provisions together and hopefully in the very obvious place. And if you were to open this up, hopefully what you're looking for, you can look at the article and know where to go and then further break it down. I think I've touched on most of this, but I'll just buzz through because I want to give everybody some time. Again, we streamlined revisions for what's required on a plat, what different types of subdivisions are. For example, give me some. Minor? Okay. Major? Not minor, major. The subdivision design plans. Subdivision design plans. Yes. Yes. So we made it a little clearer for folks that are going to this ordinance to know what type of subdivision they have. Not all subdivisions are created equal. And your ordinance now, it can be a little hard to know which bucket you fall in, what's required of you. So we cleaned that up. So it's very clear. Water bottle A subdivision or water bottle B subdivision. So it's a little easier. Again, definitions. Code of Virginia requirements. And then the. Procedures for approval. Again, just knowing what's on a plat, who's recording it, how long they have. This particular structure, again, is pretty dependent on code of Virginia. Definitely as far as time frames go. So you will see a lot of code references in this section of subdivision ordinance. So that way your staff is reliant on code of Virginia. It doesn't have to be updated too much. Time frames are something that has been changing quite frequently in the general ordinance. But in the general assembly in the last few years, they really like doing this to us and jerking everybody around and changing times. So I think that's everything on subdivision. Any questions on subdivision? I know we kind of blew through that one. But again, it's a little easier to swallow as a whole. You probably don't work with it near as much. But I'm happy to answer some questions, should you have any. So confirmed. This is aligned with the zoning ordinance. Yes. Yes. Lot size over here is the same as. So the subdivision won't really touch on it. Well, go ahead, Tyler. I think you were going to jump in. Yeah, I was going to say we were fortunate that our zoning administrator has a lot of experience and a lot of institutional knowledge. And him and the former county attorney were very up to date on state code. So they were administering it the way that it should be administered. It just wasn't reflected in the adopted text. So we have rectified that situation. While we were doing the zoning and subdivision ordinance, we also updated all of our applications to align with the code of Virginia and also our zoning and subdivision ordinance. So all of this is now lined up nice and seamless. So there's no discrepancies. Whereas before, people would call attention to things that were listed in the application that differed from our ordinance and things like that nature. So we're fortunate that Mr. Charen administered it correctly. But we need to codify the way that it's being practiced. To prevent any future legal challenges. And they certainly do align better now to your original question. Okay. Good. And just one more note on subdivision because I want to make it clear and not go home and think I was lying to you. The one big change to subdivision is what Tyler already touched on. We took some pieces out of the zoning ordinance that really belong and are code required to live in a subdivision ordinance. And that's access, motor vehicle access. And that's the zoning ordinance. That's inter parcel connectivity. So if you go to look for that later and you're like, that's missing. What have they done with it? We completely moved that into subdivision where it rightfully belongs and it's among friends now. So with that, that is truly everything that we have. Any questions before we kind of open the floor up to just general discussion on how you're feeling? Anything we can answer? Okay. We touched on these at the beginning. Does this accurately reflect what we already have in place? Can the public understand it? And do you have any questions? As we've gone through everything tonight, can you answer hopefully yes to some of these? I know Carolina staff may have said about 22 times so far that there's no policy changes. But they also said they've identified some areas where policy change may be needed. Are there some biggies that we should be aware of that we'll be working on going forward? Yeah. The ones that come to mind, and Tyler can add any additional because he's way more involved in it, was a lot of our board waivers really shouldn't be board waivers. And they should be items that the zoning administrator has discretion to waive. Those were flagged throughout. Was there anything else that jumped out at you all? Vested rights policy. The county has one. It's from the 90s. Certainly does not necessarily align fully with a lot of the best practices and other regulations. But it's something that we're working on. We're working on some of the best practices and other Virginia localities. So that's something that the board will need to look at. It was, it took quite a bit of restraint from all of the staff, particularly Amy, to not jump on a lot of policy things that we don't like administering the way that we do or that we know aren't necessarily best practices. So rest assured we have a very thorough kind of work program that we will go through when we get through the zoning ordinance update. Those are things like our housing types. They've noted in the diagnostic things about our housing types and the way that our residential standards are organized. Certainly we've taken feedback over the years from our engineering partners and also builders and developers about our landscaping policy and things of that nature. So there's a lot of best practices that we can change. And we have a very, very long list. Waivers is definitely the one I think that would be the top one we're going to tackle first. I was going to say if there's an appetite for some policy changes with this, we could. I would say yes. I think that would be a good start. I think it would be the best start. I would say yes. I've been very, very fortunate to get to work with the planning committee, to be able to pick a couple of projects that I like. I think that would be a good start. I think that would be a great start. I think, again, it's the planning committee's responsibility. I think it's the planning committee's responsibility to prepare a separate kind of companion proposal for things like waivers that the planning commission could review. I was the one who was very insistent that this phase be solely focused on functional reorganization because of the comp plan being so near and not wanting to amend the zoning ordinance, then get different policy direction through the comp planning process from our community and our decision makers and have to reamend the zoning ordinance to match that. Yeah. And that makes sense. When Tyler mentions housing types. types what we heard at our last meeting was how much we need going forward as far as the residential demand based on our population growth and um we're going to have to visit housing types or we can't keep doing the same thing and the housing type that mr bittner brought through as an ordinance amendment for rp was the only one that's been added and roger might be able to correct me if i'm wrong but probably in like 20 or 30 years and as you can imagine the housing market and the availability of housing types has changed vastly in that time now when we get into the policy discussions are they going to be involved with looking at our densities our zoning districts whether we need higher density residential districts whether we need other types of residential districts how when are we going to get into that part i mean this is great i mean yes streamlining we needed this unfortunately i was probably the only one here that was around in 91 when we did this and it was very confusing after we did it yeah this streamlines it it makes it much more useful narrative is great but tables and matrix and flow charts are so much easier to use and there's much less confusion much less interpretation that no offense that lawyers make so it's a whole lot easier to administer so i think this is great but the next step is really what i think will move us forward and i think it's going to be a lot easier to administer and i think it's going to be a lot easier to implement in our在 sprechen forward and that's when we start forward and that's when we start looking at our densities and our housing looking at our densities and our housing types and all that stuff i mean this types and all that stuff i mean this makes it much easier to use this is a makes it much easier to use this is a great product great product but the next step i think is what's doing help us now as far as the waivers the reason the zoning waivers the reason the zoning administrator and again i maybe i shouldn't say this the reason the zoning administrator doesn't have the ability to to do waivers and it precedes our current zoning administrator the board would not allow that to happen they won't would not allow that to happen they won't wanted to control that process and not allow somebody outside of the board to have that authority so that we've always tried to do that but that's why it's it's had the unintended well let me answer your first question first which is a consulting firm will certainly be helping us with phase two we didn't establish a contract with berkeley specifically because we knew it was gonna be on the other side of the comp plan and we didn't want to try to predict when we'd be entering into that but they did a great job on this and we'll hope they'll be willing to work with us again on the next one next part of it relative to the waivers the reason why we think it should be reconsidered is it has had the effect of not encouraging anybody to go for a waiver because they have to come in front of the board and do a public hearing and go through a two to three month process in order to yeah in order to do it for something as simple as modifying a buffer or something like that so why our board yes Yes sir yeah well then let's talk about that yeah yeah yes great great point of discussion right now the only other thing i'd add is there's been a number of text amendments that have occurred during this process and we've been sending those to the berkeley group so those have all been incorporated the lighting ordinance was just adopted by the board last week so that's the last one that will get incorporated into the public hearing item so we are as up to date as we can be and then any future amendments will be our responsibility to incorporate them at such time that they occur so i just want to let you all know that as well because you all have seen if you have questions this afternoon i know that we don't have sure which watch your immune system makes more sense thank you to you uh wyatt mentioned the rp rear low towns we've done some other kind of cleanup exercises over the last several months all that has been sent to berkeley group to be incorporated as part of this process the lighting ordinance is not in the draft that you will have this evening but will be in the draft that goes to public hearing something else i'll add to when we which I think you were at, if I recall correctly. But we had a conversation with that group about zoning ordinance improvements. And a lot of the conversation from that focus group did center around housing types, performance standards, district standards that are all, you know, so now that staff is aware of those and can decide the appropriate route to address them as part of a policy conversation. But as part of that focus group discussion, we also heard a lot about what we're talking about in phase one. We heard feedback from the group that certain, you know, organizational pieces of the ordinance were really difficult to understand. A couple members of that group pointed out internal conflicts or redundancies. And so that focus group, some of the feedback that we heard from the development community is being incorporated in this phase one update, even if it's not necessarily policy. And so that group was, you know, although a while ago, still involved in the conversation. I'm sure the folks in the room and the folks on the DRRC will also have some good feedback for staff, both for this phase one and then to continue discussing as part of the comp plan update and phase two. But also just want to make you all aware that that happened. Wyatt, this is good. This is great for planning commission DRC. Will the board see this? I'm grateful for our two board members that are with us. But will the full board see this before it gets to a public hearing item? After it's cleared the planning commission public hearing? It's not part of the plan to do a work session with them. I think one of the challenges with having a work session this time of year is the board is really focused on the budget. Certainly Wyatt and I will make an effort to reach out to the board members. We have two of our board members here this evening. Mr. Liero was part of the work group. So he's aware of it. And I think others are aware of what's going on. So we'll probably do some kind of briefing with him. Mr. Aikens is sitting in here, or was sitting in here for part of it as well. So we'll get them exposed to Mr. Oates. I'm sure he's quite familiar with the ordinance and has some thoughts on it as well. So we'll continue to interface with those groups as we prepare. And like I said, we're not looking to do public hearings until April and May. So we have a whole other month and a half or more to kind of get the board members prepped on this as well. Mr. Chairman, I got probably the dumbest question you'll ever get. Why does something have to go to a public hearing? That has had no changes to substance? If we just reorganize language and improve readability, why do we have a public hearing? I'm going to ask Andy to comment on that, to share with us his legal wisdom. The code requires it. Any text amendment to your ordinance requires the same process, whether it's changing a, unless it's strictly a. I mean, it's not a clerical error, ministerial correction. So there are changes. There are changes that go beyond that, as has been described. Even though they don't change the policy or the application they do, there are some significant changes to the ordinance that are being made through this process. There's also changes that we're not going to be able to necessarily anticipate relative to how this gets interpreted years from now, which is why I think it's really important that it be through, go through that public hearing process. I was just going to add, I know we don't have any members of the public necessarily here this evening. Mr. Perry's here from the paper. I'm sure he'll write a nice article about this discussion. We've had a project website, and we have had some inquiries about the process and what we'll be making policy changes. We've been filling people in. So it'll be a good opportunity for the public and people who might not always use our ordinance, but then they go to build a deck and they have to look at our ordinance to get involved and understand that we're making this easier for them. One of the things we had, we had a pattern book that was done by an intern back in 2017 that was always just on our website, but never was part of the ordinance formally. And we did get the Berkeley group to update those graphics and put them in the ordinance now. So that work, which really gives a nice kind of visual interpretation of the setbacks for different elements of a piece of property, whether that's the primary structure or an unroofed structure or an accessory structure, will now be in the ordinance and be easily referenced. So that'll be a great resource for those kind of plan of the day inquiries that we get when people are asking, how do I decipher this document, draw it on a plan for you all to get my building? And then we'll be able to show them a graphic that's in the ordinance that's very user friendly. So we hope that when the public takes a look at this, they'll find it to be a lot easier to digest. I think it's possible Mr. Perry could win a Pulitzer with the story he's going to write about the zoning ordinance rewrite. Carolyn, I would just say your work has been exceptional on the diagnostics, what you and Stephanie have done for this part of it. We look forward to continuing to work with you as we take this across the finish line and get it adopted. I hear good things from the board supervisors about what your firm's doing as well. So thank you. Mr. Chairman, just one quick question on what I would consider something that kind of got mentioned. Do you all want us to put together kind of slew of companion, not full policy changes, but addressing items like those waivers and things like that? Berkeley was very kind in listening to our advice to not focus in on the policy, but they couldn't help themselves. And they pulled out plenty of stuff that we could pick from that we think won't be terribly controversial, but that makes sense and is things that they've seen as best practice implemented across the Commonwealth. Are you all interested in considering something alongside of the functional reorganization like that? I would say yes. As somebody who pursues waivers, particularly in the EM zoning district, and Roger has been through this many, I mean, just a height waiver for something that's consistent with other equipment on an industrial site seems like a real. I'll give you a really good example. So it's a Board of Supervisors waiver for the buffer requirement for distance and landscaping. When a utility conflict, be that electrical, sewer, or otherwise, precludes the installation of the buffer, you can't plant on top of certain utility easements, you can go to the board to get a waiver for that. That's something that really is not the purview of the Board of Supervisors. Everything is the purview of the Board of Supervisors, but they have bigger problems to be handling than those. It's a waste of their time. Yeah. I think it would be great if we had a planning commission work session. I mean, we used to have those off sites, and I guess we haven't had any off sites since you've been here. The retreat. The retreat. We did two of them. But I think it would be great if we had a planning commission, even work session here, where even if it was just an hour, where the planning commissioners sat down and we talked to you guys about, this is what we think how we could improve the ordinance, whether it's higher density housing, whether it's more housing types. We have builders, we have engineers, we have lots of different people on the planning commission that can come up with suggestions. And we haven't really improved our ordinance for 35 years. We haven't added things. We're behind the times right now. And the statistics. We got from the last investigation you guys did, shows that we need to look at what we're going to do in the future. And I think we need to start looking at that. And I think we need to change a lot of our policies and how we approach development in the county. I mean, are we going to run out? We need to look at whether we're going to run out of water, how we approach that. All kinds of different things that we need to look at. And I think. But when it comes to the Теперьications, I think that there's a lot of things that we can look at our policies when we're thinking about delivering that kind of Baiako look best. And I also just want to go back to the makers of Tracey La len's work. The letters are really important. So I don't think we're going to change. We're just gonna keep those a little bitал want to thank you all very much for your time tonight i know that this is a really busy time of year and zoning is not always the most fun thing to be talking about maybe for us i know it's not for everyone but thank you all um please feel free to reach out at any time to tyler or myself should you have any questions i am more than happy to be a resource you all have been a fantastic group to work with so thank you for that and would like to also thank staff and the members of the review committee again for all of the time and very very hard work that they have put into this process um and one more thing before we wrap up if you go to the planning and development web page on the county website berkeley group made a one-page faq about this project that is posted there it basically has everything that we covered tonight in an faq format in one page should you get questions from your community from the public about this that is a very important part of the review committee and i hope that you will be able to get some of the questions that you have in the review committee and i hope that you will be able to get some of the really good resource for them it boils everything down and gives some more information about the project the diagnostic and the other documents that berkeley group has been working on are also posted on the website so again feel free to ask staff myself feel free to point the public there as well that is all we have for you tonight i know you've got a regular meeting so i will just say thank you very much again and we will see you at the public hearing thank you thank you
