Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-06-18
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=287
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This is a joint work session of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors and its Planning Commission. We'll do introductions. I just want to make a few comments before we do, since there's a lot of public interest in tonight. One is that there will be no public comment period tonight. We are not approving any particular project tonight. That's not how this process works. So I don't think we're going to do that without hearing public opinion. All the normal public hearing times, maybe more than the normal, would occur on some of these. Certainly a public hearing at the Planning Commission and a public hearing at the Board of Supervisors. This is an early opportunity to gain visibility on these projects and to discuss jointly so we don't ask the presenters the same questions by both the Commission and the Board at different times. To begin getting our information together tonight. So why do we do this once a year? We have a June 1st deadline for proposals to the county that involve changes to the comprehensive plan. You all may or may not know we have many plans and documents. The comprehensive plan you could think of as a vision document where we see the county in the future. Areas that are going to remain. Rural. areas that might be appropriate for housing or business of different types and so these qualify anything that's coming to us that would change the comprehensive plan might be a different thing than then the public had perceived was going to come to their neighborhood or their area and so we have this session once a year which we try and make as few comprehensive plan changes as possible except through plenty of visibility for example with this meeting so with that said we'll do introductions I'll let the Planning Commission go first they usually get things first in the process and have to chew on them I think it's appropriate the chairman Stowe thank you chairman Ludwig my name is Tim Stowe as chairman of the Planning Commission we keep a close eye on comprehensive plans so these changes are important to us we have done a lot of work to make sure that we have a comprehensive plan and evaluate them and look at them and try to figure out does it make sense or not and that's and this is the beginning of that process as as chairman Ludwig said so we're glad to be here tonight with the Board of Supervisors to discuss this process mr. Thomas I'm Roger Thomas I'm from the red but yes red but red but district honey I haven't been redistrict out of that one yet district and then I quit and we're always trying to get welcome read by mr. John sorry I'm done I'm Molly Brandon at large I'm Charlie Marker to read my district Elizabeth Cozell Shawnee district Jeff McKay back Creek Chad Haven Stonewall district Whitaker Gainesboro district I'm Tyler I'm the senior planner with the Planning and Development Department um why appears some the Planning Director for the Planning Development Department John Bishop assistant planning director Michael off our County Administrator John John Bad Creek district supervisor upuneor oshaun 추천't supervisor Heather Lockridge Gainesboro supervisor played on bed but Paul Willis O'Puckett supervisor Judy mccann slaughter Stonewall district supervisors and I'm Josh Ludwig chairman and the at-large supervisor. So we, I believe, are there any other introductory comments? Did I miss anything that should be made? So we have three items on the agenda, but I'm led to believe there will be a motion first. Mr. Chairman, if I could, I'd like to make a motion that we rearrange, if you could, the Middletown Business Park, if we can move that ahead of the two, Technology Park and Winchester Gateway. It would be greatly appreciated. Thank you. We have a motion from the board. Second. Do we need a second? Very good. So we have a proposal to adjust the agenda. Mr. Stowe, is that all right with you? Yes, sir. I believe the purpose is that's the easiest one and shortest, and we can deal with that one first. That's correct. Okay. Anyone object from either board? I don't know if we need a formal vote. We'll just make that change. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. If I shout, it's to be heard. We appreciate it. We have new speakers, but I'm kind of behind them. It's also to be recorded, so hopefully you can all hear me. The rest of you may or may not need to be as loud. Perhaps on this side of the table, you should be a little loud so the public behind you can hear. That would be appreciated. And to begin, do we begin with the presentation? Mr. Chairman, I'll take it away if that's all right. Thank you. Yep. You covered a lot of what I was going to speak to, and I appreciate that, but this is your comprehensive plan amendment process. We accept these applications from private, landowners, private developers, and June 1st of every year. This year, we received three. These comp plan amendments are in and of themselves not rezoning applications, although two of these are seeking rezonings as well. So just remember, when we talk about the comp plan amendments and changing the land use and text of the comp plan, it's not giving anybody any rights to their property to do anything differently unless there's a rezoning attached to it. One change to the process from previous years, and previous iterations of this process, we had already sent the applications out to the outside agencies, be that Frederick Water, Virginia Department of Transportation for preliminary comments on it. We have changed the process to save that step until after we conclude our meeting tonight. The purpose of this preliminary review with the board and planning commission is to determine whether or not you feel these applications warrant further study. There's not a decision that can be made tonight, to approve any new development. It's just a decision as to whether or not you want to give these things a fair shake and figure out some of the questions that you may be asking tonight. So no application fees have been paid by the applicant, and we have not sent these to your Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee. That will happen afterwards. The chairman described the Comprehensive Plan very well. It's a blueprint for the physical development of the community. We accept these amendments on a recurring basis, on an annual basis. And then depending on how those are handled, a rezoning or a conditional use permit can be filed either concurrently with the Complan amendment, or after the Complan amendment's approved. And that rezoning is really the land use rights change that allows somebody to do the development that they might be referring to, be that data centers, warehousing, residential development, whatever is being proposed with the application materials. So just to give you an overview of the process, our application deadline was June 9th, 2020. First, we haven't done, we haven't had them pay fees or signed agency comments yet. Following this meeting, if the board decides tonight to forward any of these for further study, we would then step on past that joint work session stage. Send these applications out for agency comment from all the different entities that we work with. Schedule committee meetings with the Historic Resource Advisory Board and Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee for them to review and provide recommendations on the applications, and then moving into the public hearing stage, that would likely begin, assuming all things go well, in early September at the Planning Commission with a work session, and then a late September Planning Commission public hearing, followed by the board's public hearing process as well. All of that is tentative, subject to change, but I want the public to be aware, while there isn't an opportunity to speak on these applications tonight, if any of them are forwarded for further study, there will be opportunities to offer comment throughout the process. So in our comprehensive plan, there's criteria for evaluating comprehensive plan amendments, and I'll just speak to those briefly for both the board and the public's benefit. So it lays out these bullet points on the slide here. Is the proposal a benefit to public health, safety, and welfare? Is the proposal consistent with the other goals, objectives, and policies of the comprehensive plan? Will the proposal not be detrimental to the use of the properties in the immediate vicinity? Does the proposal have merit and value for the community as a whole? And will it result in benefit to be those fiscal, aesthetic, employment, et cetera, that will outweigh any significant potential impacts of the change? Tonight is not the opportunity where we're going to be addressing that in great detail as to whether these have met those criteria, because again, this is just a pre-screen to say, okay, we understand what's being asked. We are willing to consider it, and we're willing to take it into consideration. So I'm going to go ahead and go through a process to then answer these questions moving forward. So you, again, I mentioned you've received three applications for this cycle. Mr. Klein and Mr. Bishop will be overviewing those in just a moment for you. The first two, and actually move the agenda around. So the first will be Middletown Business Park and the Opecan District, but the other two, Meadowbrook Technology Park and Winchester Gateway, have both requested to process rezoning applications concurrently with those. Staff generally supports that approach. They're complex applications with challenging uses to evaluate. And if you don't have the rezoning materials in the packet, and you can't answer questions about water usage, how power is going to be brought to the property in the comprehensive plan stage, and you'll be asking those questions the entire time, but not able to get answers to them. So we do support concurrent processing. We don't feel it necessarily needs to condense your all's overtime overall timeline with it. It can still be done. So we're going to be asking those questions in the final interval to determine how they can be proposed in the break-in. Mr. Austin, first off I do hope kept everybody in line to ensure that we really start work through that bats could we go back and re-evaluate so that our first choice is attractive and first of all we know that the from where we've had to make additional changes to October move forward both as as I've said Middletown with the change in the agenda and I'll pass that over to Mr. Klein to brief you all on the application when Mr. Klein's done We'll ask the applicants to sit at the table at the the front of the U shape here And then there would be an opportunity if you all have any questions of the applicants But again, we're just gonna cover the wave tops the overall proposal and figure out if we're willing to consider further study of the applications Mr. Klein. Yes. Good evening. Mr. Chairman board members planning commissioners This is your first conference plan amendment for consideration this evening This is known as Middletown Business Park and the applicants are seeking to change the land use designation on two parcels totaling 42.49 acres from a designation of highway commercial and mixed-use industrial office or MUI o to the b2 or b3 Which is general business and industrial transition land uses the existing zoning of the property is b2 and rural areas and it's presently gas convenience and bacon located in the Opec in district along Reliance Road I'll skip to the zoning and location map showing the general location of this It is immediately to the east of exit 303 east of the town of Middletown of South Sorry 302 and south of Reliance Road You all will be familiar with this interchange having recently seen the development of the sheets convenience across from this parcel The subject parcels again are outlined in purple. It's presently a split zone parcel So a portion of the site is zoned b2 general business and the remainder of the site and the other parcel or zoned are a rural Areas and it's again site is primarily vacant This is your adopted long-range land-use map which is included within the Reliance Road sewer and water service area area plan which is a Component of the comprehensive plan which is a looking at this area of the county specifically Subject properties are identified with that highway commercial land-use categorization, which is the orange hatching and then the rest remainder of the site is designated mixed-use industrial office, which is that multicolor blue white and red pattern that extends beyond this site to other properties within that area plan and you can see the bounds of the Area plan and also the sewer water service area in this part of the county with that green highlight there are also a number of planned transportation improvements across the subject parcel and in the vicinity that would be part of our Discussion and evaluation of this site and changing the land use designation This is from the application provided by the applicants again. They are seeking to change only their parcels to that b2 b3 Land use categorization that would enable them to seek and develop industrial development and they can speak to the nature of that Request in further detail and they're given their opportunity, but you can see how they're semi laying out You know what what considerations could be given to those planned transportation? improvements in this vicinity of the county So for your summary this evening staff is seeking consensus on whether To send this application forward for further study and any comments or questions you have as we move forward with further study of that is the Desire and they can following your joint discussion staff would be seeking an action by the Board of Supervisors to authorize staff to advertise The plan amendment for public hearing following that further study Chris Myers is here from Walsh Colucci representing that was partners and they will join us table Good evening ladies and gentlemen of the Board of Supervisors the Planning Commission and I'm Chris Myers with Walsh Colucci and I'm here representing my client capital already opposed to text and map amendments to the Frederick County comprehensive plan and components of the alliance room area land use plan and Eastern Frederick County land use plan Client is the contract purchaser of two parcels identified on the tax map as nine one eight five seven and nine one eight five nine with combined total area of forty two point four nine acres as we see on the maps we are seeking to amend the plan so that the properties are changed from their current long-range plan use to a b2b3 plan We are also seeking text amendments to reflect this as well as text amendments to reflect a potential shift in the planned continuance of confidence Lane to the edge of the property in order to facilitate a potential secure campus for a potential future user at this time We are not seeking a rezoning application we're merely seeking a amendment to the Frederick County land use plan the reliance road area land use plan and Eastern Frederick County land use plan We respectfully ask that the proposed amendments to the plan be approved and submit the proposals will promote and encourage a high quality business and industrial Development subject to profit commitments to be determined in a forthcoming rezoning application and I like to introduce yourself as well Dan DiLella Equus Capital Partners Chris said it all we have a couple of smaller buildings planned for the area that I believe will attract high quality jobs and Users that are looking to move out from Northern Virginia to this area and also support the strong manufacturing base that you have and I'm able to answer any questions that the board or commission may have at this time I Think we should describe to the public what kind of uses are likely in b2 and b3 Unless you have some uses within our definition that you're focusing on nothing specific at this time sir Yes, so I can generally describe the b2 zoning district which is correlates to partially is a commercial commercial home surround There and the part of the roto that I said in OR IS 5 설κ I think you have got 3 d, so make sense we also allow automotive repair and b3 as well as any use you can think of that kind of sits in between being a typical commercial use and a full-scale industrial use is that kind of what you're looking for mr. chairman I think so I'm very conscious there's a lot of public here and they may not be here for this one in particular but yeah I just want to be as clear as we can certainly and I think as we get if the projects approved for further study the application will be refined further and additional information will be put in there as well as the presentations will be lengthened and provide additional detail like that thank you so both boards have had the information and I'll just open it up to either board for questions supervisor wanted to go first well okay supervisor done okay let's go for it but my god you're proposing b2 and b3 my understanding that we don't allow data centers in b1 and b2 are you looking to put a data center in it? no so you would take that out of the options? I don't know if data centers even allow those in b2 and b3? b3 it is on the CUP I believe in one of the two it is not intent the infrastructure isn't there for the for the for that site plans that we've shared with with Wyatt and John previously indicated what our plans are for the site and we're obviously nowhere near getting our application in but we would be proffering that out I mean this is not that is not the plan it's designed for two relatively small buildings one 170,000 square feet and one 270,000 square feet which I think are the right type of size for the market that's at some point a support is being given to young people these days people do want to make a sales board that may have said listen I was going to think you're going to be in there no matter what that's not going to be that's the kind of population that's going to be that's what that's going to be that's what we're figuring out and we could do a couple things right there with the larger scale spaces and people out there will need to make a time slot for that one that's what we'd like to see happen so we can set up the rate and wait and see if that people are already living here and are performing. So a couple questions for you, Wyatt. The current zoning of this is RA, is that correct? It's split-zoned, so a portion of it is already historically zoned B-2 from when we adopted zoning in 1967, but the vast majority of it is zoned RA. Yes, sir. And so this, I'm going by memory, but a year to two years ago, there was a discussion of putting in a hotel and some other items along this same road, correct? No, that was actually at exit 321. Sorry, 323, and that was also Dan's project, but that was the hotel restaurant and warehousing proposal known as Fruit Hill, I believe. We have not considered a recent application in this vicinity. So this is the Middletown exit? Yes, sir. They've been doing things on the Middletown side. There's a Wawa proposed along Reliance in that area, but nothing out on the county side. Sheets was recently constructed on our side, and that was zoned from 1967 as well as B-2, so it was processed by Wright. One question which I don't know is what Civil War battle or not is related to it. The reason I ask the question is a previous item to a discussion on Civil War, and I think it's related to the current site, and I think it's related to the current site, and I think it's related to the current site, so before I make some comments, I'd just like to know what the length of land is on that. Yeah, our mapping system shows that it's within probably, I think, 800 feet from the interstate is still within the core battlefield area for that area. So it would have to be evaluated as part of a potential rezoning application and determined through the Historic Resource Advisory Board with a recommendation, the Planning Commission, and Board, and then we'll see what happens. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. If there's any concerns and any mitigating activities they need to do, be that archaeological resources or architectural studies, things like that. Thank you. And then to you, gentlemen, conceptually, if this were to go through, what type of business do you think you want to bring in? Well, as I was saying, we have initial sketch plans for a couple of high-quality, Class A office industrial-type facilities. The user. The user. Again, we're looking to attract users that, industrial-related users, with decent paying jobs coming out of Northern Virginia, or industrial facilities that are supporting your manufacturing base in the region. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any other questions? If I may. Mr. Pearson, is this inside of a swaza? Yes, sir. It's in the Reliance Road sewer and water service area. And as you all may remember, actually, it's a new building. The board might not have been engaged on it, but we did talk to the board during the last Middletown boundary line adjustment about kind of the relationship down there. The plan calls for Frederick Water to be the service authority within that sewer and water service area, but they have no utilities there. This specific application has a contractual agreement that they're working through with Middletown for them to provide service. And I think it is an old 1970s agreement that was signed between the town and previous properties. And I think it's a very good agreement. And I think it's a very good agreement that we're going to be able to make with the city owners that they believe applies to this property still. Would that provide adequate water and sewer capacity for the uses that are being contemplated? I think to the best of the applicant's ability right now, they believe so. But that would be between the applicant and the town of Middletown if any upgrades need to be made to serve it. I know that there's plant capacity in Middletown, but they'll have to evaluate the existing lines that serve it and upgrade those if they're not sufficient to serve their use. I would just comment on that. I would anticipate that we would not be having high sewer water in the area at this location. Okay. Dan, B3 allows warehousing. How much warehousing are you anticipating on the 42 acres? It would be two buildings, one 170,000 feet, one 270,000 feet as we have initially sketched. How much? Does that fill up the 42 acres? I see. Basic, yeah, I mean, with the ingress and egress, it does, you know, requisite parking. I don't know. We are, we have no users teed up, so I don't know exactly what the type of use would be. Are you thinking the B2 uses would be more along the road that would compliment travelers or? We, again, we had sketched out two very similar type of use, probably more related to the B2 type of use. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any other questions? Yes, Mr. Chair. For Mr. Pearson again. At what point in the process would infrastructure specifically to the exit, any upgrades that would be needed to 302, when would those be addressed? So as part of the comp plan amendment, specifically because they're looking to modify the future transportation network, we would be looking at a number of things. One is the future of the transportation network. So we would have to look at the future of the transportation network, but we would also look at the future of the transit network. And we would also look at the future of the transit network and the future of the transit network for the future of the transit network. So for example, in the future of the transit network, we're going to be looking at the future of the transit network in this area. We'll talk to them about some of that. But at the rezoning stage, they'll be required to prepare a traffic impact analysis and that will handle some of the downstream effects. We've seen projects in the area recently that have warranted signals at both the interstate ramps and we suspect they may be in a similar boat once they get into their work. But yeah. That's kind of, so there'll be a preliminary step here to talk about what they propose to reroute Confidence Lane. Is there any other questions? For those of you familiar with the intersection, the county has been planning to discontinue north and south Buckton for at least 15 years now and then have those rerouted further down Reliance to eliminate the issues that you may have experienced where people are trying to get onto the interstate and they mistake one of those roads for the interstate ramp or vice versa because of how close they are and improve the functionality of the whole interstate interchange by doing that. And that would be part of the evaluation if these guys were to get to a rezoning application. Thank you. Any further questions? Very good. So you're looking tonight for consensus from both groups? Yeah, Mr. Chairman. In previous years, we have had the board take an action at a future. Board meeting to authorize public hearing. You'll notice in your packet this year, we included the resolutions to authorize a public hearing at this meeting. If you're so inclined, these joint work sessions were built so that you could also get feedback from your planning commission and have an idea of how they felt about the conference of plan amendments. So, however, you know, Mr. Stowe and Mr. Lugwig are inclined to either pull the planning commission and board. But at the end of the day, we do need a vote of the board of supervisors only. So, we're looking forward to seeing what the board thinks on the resolutions to authorize these for further study in the public hearings. Mr. Chairman, I did kind of get it started. I, this is my district. Certainly, I've talked with these gentlemen and other folks about it. So, I'm not going to make a motion, but I'd certainly like to see the board in play and give us a consensus to move forward for additional study on this project. That's what we're doing. Pushing it forward for additional study. It will still come up on the board. Underneath all kinds of public hearings and redos and rezonings and so forth. But I would ask that the board move it forward for additional comments. Thank you. So, we've got that motion. I guess I'd like to hear from the planning commission their opinions. We, Mr. Thomas and I, were just contemplating where our Opec and district planning commissioners are. But I've studied this one. I feel like this is a good use of this. Location being as proximity to the interstate, it's inclusion in an existing swaza and the plans that Mr Pearson described to seem very appropriate for additional study to make sure this is a good fit for what we think we've seen here this evening. Okay, I'm seeing nodding heads, so I won't. Ask if you want to pull your group, so we have been, we're going to decide, I guess, on each of these as we go along at the end of the discussion. Yes, sir. That'd be appropriate. Yes, sir. That'd be appropriate. So we have a motion that it's fine for the county to consider for additional study. The reason we do it this way is one of the things that was pointed out to me, there have been things that came to the county before. The applicants put a lot of work in, a ton of money, because they thought the county was okay with what they were proposing. They get all the way to the end of a process, it gets kicked back to planning commission several times, which gives them double, triple work. Because maybe we have concerns. And the public has had concerns, or the public has had concerns. And then everybody loses in the end if it's denied, and we don't want that to happen to developers, to prospective partners of the county in development. So that's why we're having this discussion now. If nobody objects, I'll start at the end. Supervisor Jewel, are you fine with, see no objection to further study? No, I agree, move it forward. Supervisor Leera? Agree. Further study? I agree. Supervisor Locke? Supervisor Dunn? I agree. Any other concerns? I'd like to know the historical context of the land. But at this point in time, you can move forward, just know that's a concern. Supervisor Wells made the motion. We have five yeses. Yes. I'm a yes. I am a yes. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I look forward to hearing more in the future. Thank you. Second one is what was on the agenda first, I believe, right? Are you going to Meadowbrook? Yes. Technology Park. Yes. I'm slow. There you go. Mr. Chairman, John Bishop will be handling this request. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, members of the planning commission, Chairman . As you've been briefed in your packet, of course, this is a 644 plus or minus acres requested for a land use. Okay. So, this is a 644 plus acres requested for a mixed use office or industrial designation in your land use plan in order to enable specifically data center development. This is currently existing as a rural areas zoning designation and it's located in the Back Creek District. As Wyatt referred to earlier, this is one that we, as staff, feel concurrent processing makes sense because of the levels of analysis and details that come out as part of that discussion and we're so specific to the use. So, staff does endorse that portion of the request. Now, to begin with, we have your zoning map. The parcels in question are outlined here in purple. And as you can see, there's really no other zoning other than the RA that exists nearby. However, I will note that it's hard to miss the roughly 2,000 acres of solar farms, but the reason those don't show a zoning designation is because they're not in the area. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So I think that the reason this is such a șO fazerconvers Hungary and there are so many other areas of its« can move up some level is because they are still RA and were enabled under a conditional use permit. Moving on to your current, future land use plan. are the solar farms I would add you also see the nearby substation the district is roughly bounded on the west by Heights Road on the south by Val Cluj Road down through here excuse me on the east by route 11 obviously the details are in your packet we do have the applicants here to take additional questions we are as with the previous one you just considered seeking consensus on whether to send this application forward for further study part of that consensus would be the allowance of concurrency or not and if further study is warranted staff would recommend concurrent processing as we've noted with that I can take turn it over to the applicant ask them to please come up to the table as with the previous one the applicant is really more for details detailed questions to the use whereas staff can help you with any process questions or cop planning questions you may have take this back to the map just so you've got something better to look at well they have a presentation planned mr. chairman we tell all of the applicants that for this kind of pre-screening stage to not prepare presentation materials to justify their use but to be ready to answer any questions you all might have if it were warranted for further study they would do the typical presentations that they would have at the public hearings and the committee meetings moving forward thank you so I'll turn it over to board and the committee for questions Aaron do you mind introducing oh I'm sorry sir my name is Aaron Swishelm I am a Land O's Attorney with Wellvellucci next to me is Jacob Boys, studies ab passing我们史談 из呀 nichtishaue unya理阴罢 diligimente Thanks. My name is Aaron Swishelm I am a Land Use Attorney, funds and value special degree , JO约 upper hand in questions and pol Universiies 受93 answer particular questions related to Hak给我问题 is Jake Bach with TRACT and then Dan also with Get Backed. All right, then questions that we've... Mr. Bishop? Yes, sir. The substation down in that lower southern end there, how many acres is that? Is it around 100 acres? It's, yeah, something. I don't know exactly, but that's in the ballpark. It's quite large. So we have this area is essentially surrounded. There's a couple open areas in there, but for the most part it's surrounded by solar fields and a 100-acre substation. Yes, sir. I would note that you have residential development to the north here and also to the east, additional agricultural property right here. You have the Valpous Inn property, which you were recently talking about, here right on the south of Valpous Road. You have Trumpet Vine right here on the northern part of Valpous Road, which coincidentally is being marketed right now as having access to this potential park as well. So it's, at least by the property owner, potentially being viewed as a similar use. Has any construction started on any of those solar fields yet? They are constructed and operational. They're operational. They're operational. Yes. Questions? Yes, Mr. Chair. I have a water question for you. If fully built out, my understanding is 11 buildings, if fully built out, what would be the water usage per day? And then within that water question, what percentage would be evaporated out? What percent would be going to wastewater treatment? What percent would be recycled? And so basically, what's the distribution of that water once it goes into the... Yeah, thanks for the question. So right now, based on our estimates, we anticipate roughly 700,000 gallons per day on average. I'd say about 70% of that is evaporated and 30% can be recirculated. But we are right now investigating opportunities to reduce that water usage. So part of the request for further study is to allow more time to run other analyses and further reduce our water usage. Thank you. I would also point out with that water figure that it's also not even the largest water figure within the county. There's a lot of misconceptions about water use within the data center industry. As Dan mentioned, we're currently working tirelessly to lower that number down. We've probably do a max of 700,000 per day currently in your packets. And we're working very diligently so that we can continue the process. We can lower that number further. But you could be exhausting the amount of inteligance and imagination that goes into designing such chains. If not,ропoda 아니라 unprecedented boleh tanинatta. So it's a huge responsibility to say these kinds of communications, because we don't see the need for these types of requires in Anderson wet and dry полов cortege or just lightened talk about how they can be done in a stfig capacity of a wide обыч growing address. So that's why we strongly call on the federal IRS to coule a lugar tanina, We also wanna advise the Democrats to really be considerate of those because I believe they're going to solve the problem that they're gonna live in. and Jenny, personally, 20 months ago, actually. And when you're looking across Frederick County, there are a few factors that are required for a data center development. The number one thing that we look for is scale. And that's because TRAC was founded on the principle of not letting a community turn into Ashburn. With these onesie-twosie 100 acres here, another 200 acres there, developments, that can't really sustain the growth and demand within the modern data center industry. And you see with cloud, with AI, everything else, it's just not big enough for growth. And so that's how you end up with Ashburn. So we look bigger than that. Once we find the scale, you then start to look for the power transmission. Meadowbrook substation is one of the biggest substations any of us have seen, with multiple 500 kV lines running along it, 135 kV lines running along it as well. That provides adequate and existing infrastructure to power the site, which is another factor you look for because we're not going to be able to do that because we don't want to impact the communities by locating off of existing transmission lines, off of existing substations. We want to find the existing substations, find the existing high-tension transmission lines, and locate there so it's the least impactful on the community. After that, we start looking for where's the fiber, where's the water. And when we look here, it was running right along Route 11, right through the property. You have access to Winchester water, as well as the long-haul fiber conduits you need to transmit the data. And after that, we look for the power transmission and the power transmission. And after that, we look for the power transmission. And after that, we look for the power transmission. So that's road access. And Route 11 and I-81 provides the necessary access where you don't need to do these massive movements with small county roads. It's a state highway just off of an interstate highway to provide the access you need. And so, in a previous life, I've actually did a lot of work in this community and up in West Virginia, Winchester and Western Railroad. I've always loved the business in this community and the surrounding communities. And as you look around the county, you can see that there's a lot of community that's trying to find a site here. And there was really only one that could support the modern hyperscale data center footprint to allow it to grow sustainably in one location without having it done piecemeal across a community. And it's Jason and Jenny's land. Thank you. Yes. I have a question about the noise. There's been talking about this, it generates a hum that aggravates the noise. It aggravates neighbors. That's one source of noise. And there's another source, as I understand it, you have emergency power. And your emergency generators have to be exercised weekly or some frequency, and they make noise. Tell us about the noise issue. Yep. So, I think the county's done a great job with the data center ordinance that was recently passed. So, we've actually, with our updated properties that were recirculated, we brought our noise limit down from the required 70 decibels as measured at the property line down to 65 decibels. In terms of mitigation strategies, I mean, there's a number of physical and engineered ways to mitigate that noise. So, you can put sound enclosures around the equipment. You can put silencers, mufflers, sound-ending equipment. So, there's a very robust menu of attenuation opportunities. From the low hum perspective, that's best attenuated by physical screening. So, smart planning, putting those generators behind a building, behind a berm. Really, at the end of the day, there are ways to engineer those concerns away. The generator, emergency generator is outside of the building. Yes, sir. But that itself is in an enclosure. Is it diesel? It's diesel, yes, sir. The only other thing that I would add is from a zoning perspective, Frederick County also has, sorry, I'll speak up. The, Frederick County has already passed, with its data center, the first one, the first one, the first one, the first one is the center ordinance performance standards to ensure that there is sound proofing. And then we've also proffered to sound proofing. We also submitted with the initial rezoning submission, a sound study that talks about, you know, the anticipated level of sound emanating from the project, which is below what the zoning orders requires. And it is below what we've proffered to as well. I don't know if it's true or not, but as I understand it, in Prince William County, there are people moving to their basements to get away from the noise. So there's that big concern from the public about the noise and about the mental disruption of that continuous hum. And there are also standards in the ordinance related to not just the generators, but RAPs, or a geBradot system, where it's not available to anyone. So if you don't know where the runs are, you could possibly close the doors to each corner of your apartment in the Lehrer budget office. Incredible legislation is being implemented that allows for all kinds of video Please provideIL on innovativeic measures, set appropriate, lackluster, and subjective infrastructure. All right, next question. How do you look at generation data centers. These are newer generation data centers we've already put into the proffers that we've submitted significant sound attenuating measures. And we want to work with you all to make sure that it's sufficient. But those issues primarily as we have seen it, I can't speak to the specific ones you're speaking about today, Commissioner, but a lot of those issues come from the old generation of data center, not the newer ones. Well, for when equipment is malfunctioning, and part of what the sound attenuation measures that we have put in our proffer statement are meant to do with like acoustical wraps, with that perimeter, that sound proofing perimeter around all mechanical equipment, is to protect the public from any of those noises if there is a malfunction until it can be corrected. I have to chime in. Everybody knows I'm the anti-data center. So it's not personal. Molly, we can't hear you. I'm concerned about bringing data centers at all in our county. And I'll discuss that at other times. I went to a planning conference last year, and because I'm a carpetbagger from Loudoun County, I left Loudoun County to get away from the data centers. They changed our entire county. I lived in the rural part. There's not a single data center in the rural part. But the money it brought in completely changed the makeup. It became transient. Young people can't get started. Older people can't retire. But I'll talk to them about that. But the sound. Prince William County has a big problem with the sound, and they've been actively building data centers. I told you I was going to contact their planning chair. He did not get back to me. But I did call their planning department. They have such a problem with sound, and I can't believe all of theirs are old. They're not happy with the weighted A study anymore. Like, decibel level is not enough. So they are putting in a noise ordinance that they're hoping to take in in September that requires a weighted C study. And they're not happy with the weighted C study with octave levels because frequency of these is more of a problem than decibel level. And your proffer addresses decibel level. And I understand why. Because that's what our ordinance is, is why I'm really going to go on a tie run. We're not ready to jump in the ship. We do not know what it's going to do to our community. And this is a mistake. So, Mark can you call my modeling team over? Nope. But I'm happy to check in for you guys. Have you had any trouble with the We'd like to urge everybody to give one more comment and then we see if we've got questions or two up in these in the hose areas. Pete did you have one? Yeah, I kind of had one right now. Ben, is that in there? Try and keep it quiet if you can. Well, you know, I want people to express yourself, but we do have to get through this also. I'm also worried about water. We have a serious water table problem right now, and I'll address it in comments and journal what I think we should do, but I don't see any effort to put something on that will keep a tabulation of how much water they're using. I see mention of filtration so it doesn't mess up their equipment going in, but I see no mention of filtration of getting out anything that they ran through before we have to process it. I know there's companies that are doing it. There's companies like mine. My son-in-law is an engineer in Winchester. Their company has to filter the water before it goes through their equipment, but then they have to. Winchester requires them to filter the water before it goes through their processing. I just think we need to look out for our environment, and we are just not ready. Mr. Marget? Mr. Marget? Yes. I'm sorry. Then I'll come to the board. Okay. Sure. If I handed out a summary to everyone at the table, we've got a copy that you guys can take with you. I would like to just summarize the issues as to why I'm against having data centers here. Like Molly said, it's nothing against you guys. But funding the data centers in general is, not funding, but allowing, is contributing to our own demise. We have huge companies, Google and everybody else, keeping track of our every move. So it's 1984 coming. It's Big Brother. In general, I'm against that. Now, I know that NIMBY is an issue, not in my backyard. Set that aside, because that's not a problem. Set that aside, because that's with every big project. And these are six-story buildings. The renderings that you provided us today look very attractive over a berm or whatever it is that kind of hides the rest of the buildings. But my biggest issue is we shouldn't, we're trying to protect our farmland. We've got RA designations, and we have said we want to protect, keep the agricultural land on the west side of 37 and the west side of 81. And so changing agricultural land to any business is something that concerns me, that we need to come to wrestle with. We have agritourism here. We have agritourism here. We have people that come for a retreat. We have people out there building, changing their barns to a place to get a wedding. This is one project that has 28 million square feet, is it? Eleven buildings, as you said. No, no. 3.25. 3.25. How much? 3.25 million square feet, not 28. Okay. Well, and what are the other things? I'm sorry. No, it's okay. No, we're done here. I have to you need, you know, we need more time to make good Parker Champions and stuff like that, because you know what, you can't made America Nuts Security. You'd pay a empowered person to buy something, but you have to pay some money. So, anything you need now, and that's why I'm here. So, it's gone. So, so, thank you that question. Go ahead. Well, I don't know about you, but, hey, where do you go? Well, I don't know where you go. a whole number of developers coming in for more 600 acres, whatever it might be, and thus it starts. So we want to maintain Shenandoah Valley. I'm an escapee from Fairfax and Loudon County myself. So to me, that's a big thing. We've addressed the hum. It's kind of like water torture, I think. The generator, emergency generator, the diesel smell, you need to deal something with that. There's the water table that Molly mentioned. The acreage that you're paving over is going to prevent more some of the water going down to replenish the wells, and wells are an issue. The wells, over time with the droughts and everything, it's becoming more of a problem. Energy consumption, we've talked about those with you guys. It's massive energy in our lines. I cannot see or see a situation where our electric bills aren't going to rise just because of the demand and the competition. And the people that I think this project, this particular project, has a vineyard near it and has a, I think it's a wedding venue near it. The people who have the farmland, here's a thing I can understand that the farm is somebody's retirement plan. When they haven't been able to pass it on to their children because they're not interested, their grandchildren aren't interested, they've got to do something with the farmland. I fully understand that. They're paid tremendous amounts of money for the farmland, but then all the farmland next to it reduces in value from what they, you're not going to build more residential around data centers. Maybe you are, but I just can't picture it. And besides the land value being an issue that needs to be more clear, it's the destruction of habitat, it's the destruction of historical importance of the land. And the last thing I'll say is it's kind of like the lottery because the biggest thing in my mind is a benefit to the community is dollars. Dollars and cents. That's the siren song for Loudoun. That's the siren song for Loudoun County. And where that comes from is equipment tax. Whatever's there gets real estate tax. Maybe the real estate tax would increase too, but that's the only money coming in to us. But that's the big driver. It's kind of like the promise of, well, let's have a lottery so we can fund our schools. Well, how's that working? I mean, so we fill the, flood the county with data centers, we fill the, flood the county with data centers. So we get all that income. And do you suppose, you guys are the ones handling the budget. You get this big influx of money. Well, first off, you pay any debt we have, you pay for the schools we might need. And then you got all this left over. Are you really gonna send that back to us, the citizens? Or are you gonna expand government locally? If you've got a cash cow, you're gonna send that back to us, the citizens. And then you're gonna send that back to us, the citizens. If you've got a cash cow, that all just came along, data centers being a cash cow, what's gonna happen with all that money? And it complicates things drastically. So that's my piece. That's why I'm against data centers. We appreciate it. With regards to the concept that you approved, Pauline, how did you get the idea that you were gonna send back to your country, and how did you get the idea that you're gonna send back to your country, and how did you get the idea that you're gonna send back to the city of Laude County? So how did you get that idea? Well, it's a pretty straightforward question. So we've been working with the city of Laude County and the city of Laude County to try to get it on the map, to get it on the map, and then to the city of Laude County is a good example. And then two, and then it becomes Laude. And I'll just reiterate again, TRAC was founded on two premises. The first was, do things the right way. And the second was, build sustainable digital infrastructure so that you don't make other communities location where there's already high tension transmission lines required to bring the massive power load to the site there's already the water line from Winchester water the fibers already there you also have massive the multi-thousand acre solar fields surrounding yes there are obviously with development always going to be issues with certain surrounding properties one of the ones you mentioned happens to be on the market for something like 70 million dollars right now if they want to go buy it but I will say that our concept is to bring them all to this location it is scaled the infrastructure is there there's water that's coming from Winchester water not ground water and it's to do it in a sustainable way so that you don't go and approve that after the fact a hundred acre parcel over there you don't rezone a 200 acre parcel over there and all of a sudden you have to interconnect all of them with fiber you have to have transmission lines strewn all over the county what would really go on location what would prevent that you all the major difference I see between Frederick County is that Frederick County is out in front of a lot of the problems that Loudoun County had because a lot of the problems that Loudoun County is having with proliferation of data centers have to do is the fact that up until very very early in the summer without any kind of water there's no very recently they were by right in like four of the zoning districts that were allowed in that do industrial development or office park development in Loudoun County and there were certainly rezonings to those zoning districts but there weren't data center standards until December of 2023 there weren't and and you were not required to get a rezoning or any kind of approval if your land was already zoned that way from the county so one of the things that I think staff has done really well and the board has done really well is look to what has happened in other localities and tried to perhaps prevent it from happening here you know the sound standards are great in fact part of the sound standards were actually from a proper statement that I wrote for a project in another locality because we were concerned about sound so there you will always have the ability to review an application that comes in for a data center unlike in Loudoun where the board for a very very long time did not it took them until this year to get their arms around know by right data centers and the board here has already had very clearly the other thing I'd like to add on to that is with that energy bill actually will not go in business is first energy Rabiannik electric co-op we will bear the cost of any line upgrades we have to pay if you million dollars for each of them substations and more of paper a rate payer just like everyone else so the customer and the base does not actually have their costs go up we pay for all those capital expenditures and then pay our bill like everyone else to expand on mr. markets question about the noise frequency when you design a data center do you typically do a sound isobar frequency map that shows that compares distance with sound attenuation and frequency levels there is a there is an isobar map that shows you what those sound decimals are now it doesn't include the frequency so again it's part of the request of further study this if there's additional items you would like to look at we can certainly include that but how far out does it go because it when I looked at it and maybe I looked at it wrong it just went to the property do you do one that would go to the nearest neighbor so the one that we residents or yeah so it does go to the nearest neighbors of residents yeah so it does go to the nearest neighbors of residents yes so that that is actually zoomed out and does include residential around us and if we need to do that further we can absolutely do that it's all a product of the sound modeling software okay and you can do it for frequency also my understanding is yes I can confirm that with our with our sound engineer and could you indicate which frequencies are more susceptible to causing discomfort discomfort loss of hearing sickness I mean there's some frequencies that can can make people throw up yeah yeah this is all this is all something we can study yes sir and we'd be happy to work with figure out exactly what the concerns are again should we be able to study this further to make sure that these Proffers and the development not only work for us a work for you all and everyone in this room everyone in Frederick County to make sure everyone's comfortable up okay we want our board wants to hear all your questions Supervisor Wells has been waiting while you wanted to jump in When I ask you to and then maybe we'll come back for more thoughts Supervisor well, thank you very much a lot of the questions. I think if it got pushed forward That's one of these questions are going to get answered Listen mr. Haven listen to Molly and Charles also the bottom line is If you took out the word data center and said you just want to build a brick building out there I don't think that's a proper place for it We have rural agriculture here We've been this board has talked about buying TDRs to save land in Frederick County We've already allowed that to happen We're losing Rural areas we're losing our look So I balance it between income and what I'd like to sit where I want to live This just isn't the proper place. I'm sorry. Of course. It's a great spot for you I just don't think we take our rural land and just say we are young if you look back there you see all solar panels If you just love to go see solar panels take a tour I think we need to save that thing. That's it bottom line supervisor down I'm asking all I ask questions. I'll make a couple comments. So the questions one cooling you talked about, you know, Senator's house What I understand there are other ways to cool as well So you want to address those? For example, you can use glycol you could use air cooling is a trade-off in power But you might just talk about other ways to cool besides Yeah, for sure. So like you mentioned there's there's methods that utilize evaporation where you're gonna evaporate water cool the air And then there's also the opportunity to just use no water and go essentially large air condition You know one uses much more power and no water one uses much less water more power So there's there's the trade-off between those two. So if there's if you were devoting more power to cooling your servers You have to think you're gonna have less servers Within the data center generating less revenue for the county So that's that's kind of your trade-off there You prefer the water to be used at the data center than at a power plant Because it's it's much more efficiently managed and used and there's opportunities for recirculation there as opposed to your power plants Okay And the power issue from your perspective You think you have the power to do what you need to do, sir? you're currently in study with first energy to confirm, butians I had no data center because this is Welcome to mass The Kbil I Produce The servers and critical infrastructure in the hypothetical world where everyone stops using their cell phones, cars, and computers, yes. I'm going to make some general comments. And I appreciate your signs, so you're welcome to keep your signs up there. But if you want to put them down, I've seen them. Your choice. This is a comprehensive plan amendment. If we go forward with this, it's going to give us information on data. So I just want to address some general comments. Mr. Barker, you made the comment about generating a lot of money and then a cash cow for extra dollars. In the year 2000, this county's budget was about $74 million. We had approximately 59,000 people. Today, this county's budget is about $282 million, but we have about 99,000 people. In my opinion, the way we're having with growth, I don't see us having necessarily extra money. I think the way our budget's growing and the additional services we're having, this simply becomes an additional revenue stream. But I don't see it as being something that's going to be extra cash. I'm well aware that many people in this room are opposed to this. And I'm going to be on a different position. I'm going to ask you to give me the courtesy of just laying out. I'll tell you why I think what I think. And then we can go from there. I think that we should go forward with this because there are many questions that are unanswered. And so I'm just going to kind of walk through. I've gotten lots of emails and they've all been no, no, no. But here's my thought process. First of all, data centers. I have a lot of data, people say, I don't want data centers. So I asked the rhetorical question, if you don't want data centers, that's fine, but why? The first question is if you don't want data centers, are you willing to give up a cell phone? Are you willing to give up a computer? Data centers are used as a backbone for our cell phones, our computers. It's also used as a backbone for industry. So when you go to the hospital, they're using stuff from data centers. You go to business. So one of the questions is what's the usage? I've heard the comment that in Virginia, and don't quote me on this, but some places in the neighborhood of 500 plus data centers exist like in Loudoun County. But as we've talked about, there's lots of small data centers, and this is a data center farm, a data center campus. So the real question is, do you expect to have data center capacity right now being met, or do you need more data centers? I'm talking about internationally. If so, where do you put them? We've heard the conversation on I don't want to go and lose farmland. I live in a house that was built in 1990. Behind that farm or behind that house was farms. Today we have Sovereign Village, Twin Lakes, New Horton property. And so there's probably a neighborhood of four or five square miles of houses behind the house that when it was initially built was farms. In this particular location, this county has two major existing substations where you have high transmission lines coming in. One is here in this area, and the other is up north. Those are the only two high-powered existing substations to do this. The policy question. The policy question becomes, is it a tradeoff that if you put a data center next to that high-powered substation and then said no more, is that a tradeoff? And I don't have an answer for that yes, but I think that's something that ought to be studied. The second thing that relates to that is there's concern about a data center creep. And so if this board said fine, if we're going to do that, and although we can't control what a future board says, we can at least put some indications down there, to say fine, if you're going to have a data center creep, it would take, let's say, two-thirds or three-quarters of the board, not just a simple majority. At least that would be a stumbling block to consider. There are issues that have been raised on power. I'd like to see a third party, and the county could run a town hall meeting, where you have energy transmitters and energy generators come in and say yes we can or no we can't. I've heard many people say that with all due respect, the developer is lying and we don't have the power. Well we can eliminate them from the equation and bring in the people that generate power, the people that transmit power, neutral party, and ask them the question. We've had the question on water and cooling. Because I had the conversation here, you can have air cooled, Michael cooled, water cooled, and there may be other items. I'd like to have an in-depth discussion on what are the options there for that cooling system before you make a yes-no decision. For those of you that are concerned about the farm area, I'm empathetic to that. But I can show you five square miles or more of farmland behind my house that was there 25 years ago that doesn't live there today. This county has approximately 60 miles long, 40 miles wide. It has approximately 240 square miles of farms. This here would take up Fall Park one to one and a half square miles. So that's the tradeoff. But the tradeoff on that is that you have a data center, power, water, electric, all coming in one spot as opposed to multiple spots across the county. And then you have these high transmission lines. And from what I understand, that's occurred in Loudoun County. As a kid, I'd been in Loudoun County when it was rural. I've seen the Carva. I'm also familiar with Prince William County. If you go along Route 234, 234 used to be nothing but farmlands. It's heavily built up. So if it can be concentrated in one spot, I think it's something that you want to consider. It's not ultimately yes or no, but I think it's not smart to go and say no before you have all data. I come from an engineering background. I want to see the data first and then make a decision on data, not just have a, I don't like it. So from my perspective, I would say we go forward and have a study, which answers some of the questions I'm laying out here, to see what the data says before you make a final decision. Thank you. Other comments and questions? When I went to, they're not the only data center builders. When I went to their open house, and I liked it, and coming from Loudoun County, having centralized, I get that would have helped. But at that meeting, I learned there's already three others coming in the pipeline. They don't come just one. If it would be just one, I still wouldn't want it because it destroyed Loudoun County. And you can say you want to see the data, but go down there and look at property value. Look at the taxes. Look how it's transient. You can afford to live there if you're at the peak of your career. I moved here because my daughter couldn't afford to get started when she got married in Loudoun County. That's what I learned. I was given her 17 acres that she didn't have to pay for. But? It ruined Loudoun County. It ruins Prince William. I understand there's this big gateway. To answer your question, I would be fine with getting rid of my cell phone, getting rid of computers. And this was my business. I know I'm a dinosaur. But I was computer engineering. It started out there weren't laptops. Big mainframe computers are basically what they would call the cloud today. I wrote assembly language to make sure things stayed proprietary, gave people access to their data. Most of it companies, not people. And then I remember my husband coming home with the very first laptop from IBM. The thing looked like a big brick. And that kind of got rid of my business. And that kind of got rid of the timeshare. And I was recruited to shift to write X25 background switches and pads and get people out there and let's connect. But it's been detrimental to our society. I left Loudoun to get away from it. How far do I have to go to be able to live rural, to raise my family, be around my children, my grandchildren, and the nice people that I have? Not a cement jungle. One question, one comment I wanted to make in addition to this is that if we go forward with this, I know that we have three. We may have four or five or six. One of the policy questions I would like to have is, one, do you want data centers, yes or no? Then do you want to have data centers that are not data centers? Do you want to have data centers that are not data centers? Then two, if you do, where do you put them? Then three, how many? So that's kind of a thought process. And so I don't have an answer to that. I'm empathetic to your comment about multiple data centers in Prince William County. The attraction on a data center campus, to me, means everything is consolidated. And whether it's one down south or you have one up north in the Fairbrook area, that's a tradeoff. I think that a... A... A study going forward helps to answer some of that question. So I talked to Wyatt earlier on this. And there are pluses and minuses on the north side, pluses and minuses on this. So... I'd like to know the check answer on that. Okay, that's fine. So that's where I'm coming from. I think it's, should there be data centers? If so, where do you put them? And we want to have a discussion on the current technology for data centers. So water, on power, et cetera. If there are questions, integrity questions, but you can't do it, then bring in a third party to answer that. Thank you. Thank you. Just for clarification. Sure. This is a comprehensive plan change. They're asking for a comprehensive plan change on one particular area. We can talk about data centers. We don't need to move this one forward to talk about data centers. We can talk about data centers without moving this on this piece of property. We can leave that right where it is. It can turn into whatever it's gonna be. And we can talk about it. And we can talk about data centers coming to Frederick County. You're mixing and matching oranges and apples. So I'm looking at the change from agricultural land to business property, if you will. And as I said, I don't think that's the right spot. Supervisor Walts. Supervisor Walts. I'm pleased to be on the side. I can tell you that this isn't the right department. Yeah. I can tell you that this isn't the right place. If I were to interpret Supervisor Dunn's comments, it kind of goes back to what I said at the beginning. It's not saying, you know, we have to go forward to have these conversations. But what it is saying is because this is the only scale for a true hyperscale use site that will be coming forward, the other ones are about 200 acres that are subscale and below what the modern-day data center campus requires. So the data centers, the conversation naturally has to occur. Do you want to, if you want data centers at all, which on my decision, it's your all, do you want to approve those other two? And then you need third, fourth, fifth, and sixth. Do you want to do just this one campus? And that's what I think the point he was making is that it opens the discussion for if you want it, which you could decide, I want all of them down the road. It allows for the discussion on how to do it. That's what I think. I don't need to approve that to have that discussion. I don't need, if you weren't here, we're still discussing data centers. Yes, sir. We've been talking about them for over a year. So I just don't see the need to approve something just so we can talk about it. That's all. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, this is in my district. This is me. This is me. I'm a senior in the district. And Jacob, we've talked. The project's a nice project. I like the project. The project's entirely too big. And it's in the wrong location. It really is. We do have agriculture there. But folks, you've got to understand where farmers are on this, too. Right now, the apple industry is in trouble. We had a freeze in March. Most of your farmers lost their peach crop. We go home and we work and we go home and we work. We're going to get it back. We're going to get it back. But, you know, we're going to have to do it again. We're going to have to do it again. We're going to have to do it again. We're going to have to do it again. We're going to have to do it again. We're going to have to do it again. We didn't want to do it again. That's why we're here. We have to do it again. That's why we're here. But the industry is in trouble. We had a freeze in March. Most of your farmers lost their peach crop. We go home and we work and we get our paychecks from whatever company we're working on. That is their company, so we need to be supporting these farmers. It's easy to say, I love that view. And I do love that view. But you don't own that view. And the person who owns that view is paying the taxes for that view and they're working that land. So we do need to help our farmers. And we're not going to let them keep that view. We are going to see that happen again. That's what we're going to do. I do think that this project is too big. I do think this projects in the wrong location I do think that that our County does have to have this conversation about data centers you know, it doesn't have to be all or nothing and At the end of day with this being in my district I'm asking this board. I don't think this project should move forward. I really don't now with that said If this project doesn't move forward Here's what's gonna happen. The farmer is going to try to work that land until that farmer can't work that land We're gonna buy right start selling off five acre lots for houses And I know people say I'm okay with that until you start seeing the houses you talk about the population And the schools and everything else to go with it or by right they do preservation. So just keep that in mind Well, my biggest concern is the solar panels. Yes, they're there. They're ugly We learned a lesson right but� But that's one thing we did that was smart. I was on the Planning Commission when we did this there RA That land is still RA So sooner or later, they'll come out and yes, I understand it may take the top soil out I understand it may rip everything but they're still RA And that's my biggest concern here. You look down in one cell. Look at all that farmland there I'm worried about this and Jacob I think your company I really like your project I really do I just think it's the wrong location. So as mr. Chairman as far as I'm concerned Let's settle this I'm a no on this and I'm making that motion as the back week supervisor Okay in a normal formal meeting we have Robert's rules of order and we have to take up motions that are made But I still want people to be able to ask questions I think this is a very large project I think this is a very large project I think this is a very large project I know we always previously years ago. We had to policy no development west of 81 Well that horse left the barn a long time ago When we put 2,000 acres of solar panels in there, that's that's not a roar Even though you can call that land whatever you want to you can call it RA you can call P2 It's never going to be farms again Those solar panels have gone in there and they've destroyed that land for any useful farming purposes The only thing that lands gonna be in the future Is a housing development and that's going to be very expensive because they're gonna have to go in there and take all the foundations out for all of those solar panels that were sitting in there, they're gonna have to do a Treatment of the land to get rid of all the hazardous waste that comes off the solar panels so Assuming or thinking that that's ever going to be rural land again is That's a nice dream But it's not going to happen and I had this discussion back when we were talking about putting solar panels on here John and I had this discussion a lot We were in a planning commission together So, I mean I don't see a better area in the county to put this because it's already in an area that isn't going to be farmland in the future you've got 2,000 acres of Solar panels here. You've got a hundred acre substation on the southern side You got all kinds of transmission lines and there's a couple dotted areas where there may still be farmers farming but That's you know, they're not gonna farm those solar panels and If we're gonna have if we're gonna have a data center anywhere in the county This is where to put it because we've already lost the rural nature of the area now. I wish the solar panels were gone I wish the data center was gone But wishing doesn't make make it true. The solar panels are there the substations So, you know, what are we gonna do with it? If we're gonna have data centers in the future Do we want to go west of here and take? another area that's not already 2,000 acres of solar panels and put solar panels there, you know We're kind of at a crossroads of really. What do we want to do? Data centers didn't ruin Loudoun County Loudoun County ruling run loud account There were a whole lot of other factors that ruined that area It wasn't data centers and maybe they had too much money and they didn't know how to manage it And that's a problem. But you know if you want to spend all the money you get that that's what happens That's why I guess our government's $37 trillion in debt. But, you know, I wish the solar panels were gone. I wish there was apple orchards out there and people were farming. I wish I was a millionaire, but wishing doesn't make things happen. And we are where we are. And, you know, I think we ought to study this to find out if we do want data centers in the county. Right now, we really don't know. And I don't see any better place to put them than when we've already turned a rural area. Into an industrial area anyhow. So, that's my comments. I'll say one more thing. I won't speak anymore because it applies to the next data center too. Ever since this went public, everywhere I go, I talk to citizens of this county. Now, I know us individually are not a major stakeholder, as we keep saying in the planning. And I know Roger is saying, we, we, we. Well, we is the planning commission. We is the supervisors. We is our staff. We is not the people. And collectively, we are a huge stakeholder. We have a comprehensive plan redo coming up that we're going to start working on. It's supposed to be completed by August 2027. We have a water study of the watershed going on. We're supposed to get the results. September 2029. I propose we ask the citizens, do you want data centers at all in this county? Because I have asked over 120 people at this point. I had one person say they want data centers and they didn't care if it was in their backyard because this is what the country is and we all have to sacrifice. I had three people say, I want data centers because I want to be able to pay for the schools. I want indoor pools. I want ice rinks, you know, so let's just government. But then when I asked them, okay, so you're fine with them across the street from you? They all said, no. I said, so you're telling me I'm supposed to try to bring in money in this county. But I'm going to randomly decide I'm going to upset you group of citizens because this lady doesn't want it. I said, how about I decide to put them across from you since you're the one that wants them. She said, then I don't want them. I'll free up a woman. There were about 20. I don't even know what you're talking about, what's the data center. But the vast majority were no. I don't want data centers. So I would not say no to them. I would put it all on hold and find out from our citizens. Do we, the citizens, want to go down this road before we decide what we should do for them? Thank you. I will say, I agree with Supervisor Jewell. Well. This is the wrong size, the wrong location for this. I think it would behoove us the EDA and the Board have done a lot of work over an extended period of time to identify industries that you wanted to attract to the county that you thought were a good fit. That dovetail with our natural environment, that dovetail with our workforce, that dovetail with our education. And this is one of the industries that popped up. If this is something that. needs to be revisited I believe the EDA should should take a look at that for us I do think it would be beneficial to us as part of either the comprehensive plan process or apart from that to say hey are there areas in the county where it makes sense to have data centers and limited to that because we don't need these adjacent to schools we don't need them adjacent to housing areas we don't need them in areas that are that are peaceful and tranquil and rural I mean for example star tannery would be a terrible place to put so we need to look and see are there any areas at all where it makes sense and and we need to come to that conclusion instead of responding to applicants I will say the folks from track have been tops top shelf they've done everything they should have done they've answered questions they've done a great job some of the things still have me scratching my head I don't understand for example 35% of our income is going to come from a single project in future years that one makes me a little nervous if that's what Ernest and Young said I think it's what they said so I don't know that we want to be that dependent on one what heads of G as from a county financial standpoint but I like the company I like what they've done I just think this is a 조금 of a новый one for me okay mind clotting one� no comment� Mr. Wittaker can you start us off please No comment�Is there anyone there in the room except Rich? Dr. Whittaker sounds like he does in an appropriate manner so I don't know if several remaining members are remaining to that yeah or maybe Captain that said자가 Barry citizens of this county. It seems like we have these profiteers coming in in this area treating us like the cash cow. Our infrastructure cannot handle this. The DEQ has already sent warnings through our waste facilities that they're not in compliance. I would say, hell no. I always debate the supervisors. Same here. I mean, I feel for the landowner, but I agree with Mr. Stowe's comments on the size and the location. I'm saying size, location is just not, especially our first attempt into this realm, it's not the best project. So that's no. No for me. I'm a no on all data centers, but if y'all, if the people of this county want them, that is the only wise part. That's right. Oh, yes. And 700,000 gallons of water a day, that equates to about 1,500 houses. So if we don't approve this and we end up with 1,500 new houses, it's the same water consumption. More sewage, but the same water. And I'm a no. So just to answer some comments here, we only have two major existing power substations. That's one of the attractions for here. So that's an asset that this county has. Then the question is, how do you use that asset? So that was one of the questions. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. That was one of the comments that I make on that. Number two, we as a county want to have a discussion on, do you want to have multiple data centers, no data centers, or a campus data center. That would come out of just moving this forward, because I think you get some answers to that issue. Number three, I understand that all of you are opposed to this, and that's fine. But if you go through it, I talked to each one of you and said, fine. Let's go through the technical side on power, through the technical side on water, through the technical side on water. Through the technical side on generation center. If you could do that, I don't have all those answers here. And that's one of the reasons I'd like to move this forward, so you can have the answers to answer those questions. Then in my opinion, you can make a better decision than just having no. I think this, personally, I think some of this is, I've seen some of these comments on that this just don't have it. With all due respect, I don't think, at least I don't have the information to make a good analytical decision. I question whether you have all the answers. I've heard, for example, that the data center is not a good place to be. I don't think it's a good place to be. I think it's a risk that you're going to lose. But I think for this, we have the data center. And we have the data center. And we have the data center. For the good reasons, for example, you're going to hear generator noise all the time. You know, in previous comments, they've said they'd run generators for maybe 20 to 30 minutes once a week just to make certain they're there. So it's that type of conversation, I think we all want to be on the same page on, yes, this is what water is, here's what the energy is, here's what the noise is. And then you can make a decision. But I don't think we have the data to make that at this point in time. For that reason, I think we need to go smaller with it to get the data, to get the information that we need. Thank you. Just a couple of comments, Mr. Chair. Mr. Pearson did a good job at the beginning of the meeting in his opening comments, summarizing the purpose for this meeting, which is beyond information sharing, but basically as a service to the developer so that we're not having the developer put a huge investment of time and money into a project that doesn't have the support, and then they spend their time and money and they don't get it approved anyway. I just don't think that we're giving the company, we're doing the company any favors by moving this forward because with the opposition that we have currently, so that would be my statement. All right, I'll make a few comments. I'm generalist. I'm a no on this. I don't think to waste any of their time, money, but I just want to make some comments of observation. You said, Mr. Thomas, you said 1,500 homes. I'm not in favor of that either. So I wish in an ideal world we could preserve all of our green space. If farms could remain farms forever, but farmers get older and they retire or have to retire, and that is their land, that's their retirement. So, Mr. Chair, I'm going to take a few comments. With that being said, I'm no on 1,500 homes. So I would hope that would never come down the pike for rezoning there. But I also look at during my high school years, Snowden Bridge was the ultimate and it was going to be industrial park. And those people came out hard and didn't want it. And we got Snowden Bridge out of it. And I don't know that that's good or bad. I'm saying that with every decision we make, there's an equal and opposite reaction that you make. And that's something that we may not like. And with that being said, Snowden Bridge and Exit 317, the traffic is just crazy. We're dealing with that. So with that being said, when I look at this, this isn't an impact on traffic. There are some positives. I understand your sentiment and wanting to maybe research it more in that regard. It's just too big. I just don't think right now, I just can't turn that. But I do see that there could be possible rezonings where we're not happy with that either. And we look at this with every piece of anything we touch and it's always affecting somebody. It's somebody's backyard. I've heard really good points about our cell phone usage. I have an Amazon Alexa. I'm probably late to the game, but we have one of those in our house. I'm sure many of you guys do too. So just, you know, now we're getting into AI and chat GPT. we're using the data centers. So it's really hard for me to sit here and say, not in your backyard, but somebody else's backyard, but I just want to say I'm a no. But with that being said, there's other things that come down the pike that aren't going to be extremely favorable if this farmer decides for a different rezoning, just to put that out there. But that's generally where my brain is functioning. Thank you. And we've heard Supervisor Dunn, Supervisor Wells, that we had here. I think you have a consensus. We do, yeah. So the consensus was not to move forward with this project. I just want to say I agree with that. I don't know what the future brings, as Supervisor Lockridge said. What's going to happen on the farmland as farmers cease wanting? Well, I think the future is going to be that we're going to have to have a lot of people coming to farm. The term hyperscale was used. I think you meant it in a positive way, where the most can be done in the smallest campus so that we don't have to have data centers here or there. One drawback to allowing them to go here or there, first of all, as was pointed out, we don't have the right water and power everywhere. But this one hyperscale project, I don't think would stop more from coming. I also work with the Department of Agriculture, and I've heard a lot of stories that it would put the camel's nose under the tent, as was said, we have one more already tonight, and I've heard rumors of three more coming this year alone to the county. And I think this is too large. We're just not ready for it. We don't know for certain. Some of the problems other counties have had is they approved a plan and then it turned out after it got done, well, there wasn't enough power like they thought. So now, new transmission lines have to be run. run where they weren't before through neighborhoods how do we have a guarantee i agree we can only do that with study and knowing more about data centers but i don't want a gigantic project to go forward with and there's many other risks i don't know that we can bear many more drops of water from our aquifers underground now they're taking it from the pipeline they say from the shenandoah river that is a plus i i understand miss brandon's comments that there won't be many other places where the water can come from somewhere else and that the power is available as well but we've had lots of problem with wastewater treatment we don't understand where that would go could middletown handle it if it has to pass through the pipes in stevens city to get to our parkins mill plant well those pipes have a huge intrusion problem that hasn't been solved and so now you've got potentially the salt water coming out of the data center and leaking into the community the more i look at it the more i worry about the unforeseen impacts which was the experience of other counties so i think we have our consensus for this project one comment we do have you know two i think two other items one of the reasons i wanted to go forward with this is to have a discussion on do you want to have a campus type situation where everything is concentrated in one space and you're not going to have a campus type situation you're trying to have one space you want say you have to have in place or there's not like Formul directamente summers on venues it all serves a purpose obviously the plan on how you got on site is that you haven't finished a single one and all the ones that are done that fail okay two now our reason why we are also getting a lot of concessions is because the mission is one of these who know each one of them has experienced issues about there is not safe storage so I think we have to 왜냐하면 we have to face all the other screenotter sensors we've had people participate we've had försöние you conduct a consultation with our foundation and we have to do things like if you have a viewer electric and detachments you know is there room any way of an vieneASA catch this eaten overly that's the comfort space the or potentially if you want to have multiple spots, I'm going to go and say the same things going forward, removing a large area. I know some of you think it's too large. But you want to go through the study process to decide if it's too large and what's the tradeoff between that and two or three or four other data centers that are much smaller. That's the purpose that I think this offers. And removing that I think is detrimental. Thank you. Dan, Jacob, Aaron, thank you for your time. We're going to move on to the next application. Thank you. So for those of you... If there are people working to adjust that project, if you could take your conversations outside so we can continue. If you want to stay, of course, for the next data center project, we do. I do want to recognize that you've heard about zoning. When the first project came up, we have different areas of the county where people have what's called buy-ride, if you're not familiar. It's approved for certain kinds of things that businesses can go to. We're unlikely to stop until we have a permit. Then we have areas where certain things are not allowable and we have areas where it's conditional. You'll hear about conditional use permits. And that's where it might be appropriate and might not, and we have a process for that. So I just want to let you know, up until this year, our ordinances did not cover data centers. So there were a lot of areas that were zoned for business where they could have been built without much control and review like this. So I just want you all to recognize that we are trying to be on top of it. We passed an ordinance that puts the control and the commission in the board's hands where nothing, I believe, anywhere can be built without this kind of review. And one thing we haven't done, though, since that ordinance was just finished this spring, we haven't gone to our comprehensive plan process that some of the planning commission members mentioned to say, where are those areas that would fit now that we have the zoning ordinance, if any, where there wouldn't be neighbors, it would disturb, and where it would make sense. And we don't have many right now because we haven't gone through that process. That's going to be like a two-year comprehensive plan process. So I just wanted to explain, the county will probably be looking at whether data centers like we do for all new industries, whether they fit somewhere or not. I don't think we've designated very much at all land where we've said that it's a definite place where they fit. So anyway, I just wanted to explain that piece of what we're doing. Stay engaged, you know, whenever new things come to your community to be considered because change is always going on. Mr. Chairman, I'll turn it over to Mr. Klein to present Winchester Gateway 2, another data center application. Thank you. This is your final application of this evening. This is a request to designate 105.63 acres from a rural areas land use designation to a technology manufacturing park designation. This is a request to designate 105.63 acres from a rural areas land use designation to a technology manufacturing park designation or other appropriate designation and to include this subject property within the limits of the county sewer and water service area to enable the development of data centers and other uses. The property, again, is presently zoned and being used in the rural areas and it's within the Bat Creek District. Staff would note, unlike the previous application for Meadowbrook, this property, while not included in an area plan, is currently under the state's jurisdiction. The applicant has also requested that should this application be moved forward, plan amendment be moved forward, that they would also like to pursue concurrent processing with a rezoning application. They have not submitted those materials, so they were not included with your packet this evening, but they would be putting those together and processing these concurrently should you all agree that this is worthy of further study. This is the subject property. It is located generally to the southeast of Middle Road and is a future, sorry, of existing Route 37. Staff would note that the, to the east and to the south of this property is an existing established industrial areas. We term this area as the Shady Elm Economic Development Area. It is a fairly significant area around Apple Valley Road and Shady Elm Road where there are a number of large industrial sites. Just to the east of this property is an affiliated, sorry, is an affiliated property known as Winchester Gateway. This is a property that is currently under development. The Board and Planning Commission will be quite familiar with that property. It recently received a rezoning to M1, our industrial zoning designation, and that is immediately to the east. And the applicant can speak to the relationship between this property and their Winchester East property on the east side of future Route 37. And then this is your adopted long range land use map, which again shows in blue that kind of planned industrial land in the vicinity of this property. And that is the Shady Elm Economic Development Area contained in the Kernstown area plan. This is a map showing a one mile buffer, showing the proximity of this property to existing industrial and commercial areas in the county. And the applicant can speak a little bit more again about the appropriateness of this request. So staff, again, are seeking consensus on whether to send this application forward for further study. If further study is warranted, staff would also recommend that concurrent processing of the plan amendment with a rezoning application. And based upon a result of your joint discussion, staff would be seeking action by the board as well as to authorize staff to move the CPPA forward for further study and to advertise for public hearing. Ty Lawson is here this evening. He is representing the applicant. And I'm sure him and his team would be happy to answer questions you may have. Thank you. I can ask you a question. Just a general question. I think at one point there was a discussion that the Winchester Gateway that was rezoned a couple of years ago was going to be part of this project. I realize what's being asked here is separate. Is the intent for that to be? Yeah, I'll let the applicant speak further to that. They've provided us some indication. They may try to process a conditional use permit. But Mr. Lawson can address that better than staff. Okay. Thank you. Good evening, John. Thanks a lot. Mr. Chairman and Mr. Chairman, and Mr. Mayor, we did talk about that. We own properties. We have a property, which is bisected by 37. And we have not filed a rezoning just yet. I like the one that you just considered. And we recognize we're at the beginning. We're a comprehensive plan. We can proceed in that way, if you like, so that it's very clear that it'll be a narrower use on not only the property that we already own, but the property that's already signed with M1. And we recognize that under our current ordinance, if one does want to go to data center, you can do it one of two ways. You can go directly to TM, or you could, either M1, or you could go directly to the M2. And we recognize that. And if we're fortunate enough to be considered and studied as we go forward, we are prepared to do that and drill down and get more definition and speak to those things that I think of as more of a rezoning nature and commitments. But where we are is comp plan. And we're going to continue to do that. And we're going to continue to do that. And we're going to continue to do that. And we're going to continue to do that. And we're going to continue to do that. And we'd like to think we are lights near lights. We're M1s on both sides. We're right next to a major highway. We do have a substation just to the east of our property. And of course, the large power lines that already run across the property. So those are some of the qualities that already exist around us. On our property, on Apple Valley, there's a very large gas line, water and sewer line. Y'all remember we proffered significant buffering, landscaping, and we recognize that that would certainly be desirable to continue into this property. Again, if we're allowed to proceed first with a comp plan and then into the rezoning phase. That's all we do. So we'll get back to you on that. If you have any questions or comments from Mr. Dunn, or maybe from somebody else, please feel free to unmute us, we'd be happy to answer those. Thank you. So questions from the Commission or the Board? Quick question. The substation is 550 lines, 135 lines. Could it be upgraded or status? We don't. I mean, we're not that, Mr. Dunn, we're not that far along. that substation it's right up against the area controlled and run by Rappahannock. I do know there are plans to upgrade that substation. I did a little work on the Renaissance property and of course our governor was kind enough to give some opportunity funds to improve utilities which included the electorate and I know Peterson is working to help upgrade that. That's ironically on the Rappahannock side but they both as I understand it use the substation. Thank you. Mr. Pearson do you have anything to add to that or not do you know? No but it's part of why if the board does want to further study this we support concurrent processing because during the rezoning application stage part of the ordinance amendment that we processed with the board was to include stipulations in there that how the power is going to be provided to the site be provided as part of the rezoning considerations, water use estimates, impacts on the address, and other things that are going to be involved in the process. So I'm just going to go ahead and wrap up and I'll come back to you. I'm going to go ahead and wrap up and I'll come back to you. I'm going to go ahead and wrap up and I'll come back to you. I'm going to go ahead and wrap up and I'll come back to you. The zoning stage and also the zoning properties, all of that stuff can be more thoroughly evaluated the rezoning stage and since these uses contemplate major power provision and you can't control where transmission lines get drugged through the county by federal and state preemption, you really have to have a better idea of that kind of collectively while considering a comp plan and a rezoning. Mr. Chairman, I'll just say that on the concurrency issue I strongly support that. Thank you. more questions for the staff and I don't know if you can answer this one a lot of people are there's been a lot of comments that if we have a data center everybody's power bill is going to go up well a data center would have a meter that they would be paying the metered cost to the power company so I'm I can't understand how that would affect anybody else's power or anybody else's cost if the power company uses a lot more the company that's providing the power to the to the substation whatever would increase their capacity but how would that affect other people's power bills yeah I'll caveat this by saying I'm not an expert on this topic but this is how it's been explained to me and we've been working with the Economic Development Authority to get an expert in to give advice to the board and Planning Commission on that so hopefully more to come in the future but very simply you have two different kind of power providers right you have REC and SBC which are your distribution style and then you have your transmission power providers so you have the distribution power providers which are the power providers who buy energy at a liquid market across the East Coast so they buy a power generation electricity they give it to the distribution company and we all pay bills to the distribution company part of that bill is the fixed cost to get the power to your house and then the rate that they're paying to buy the energy from the larger providers as we understand it the data center companies have every intention of paying to upgrade the fixed cost to get the power to their properties and on the East Coast are so many of them that the cost of generating power is likely to go up now that doesn't change if you don't do data centers in Frederick County is the caveat that I would provide because they're buying from such a large and collective market for power generation that not doing them here does not save you from that potential raise in the cost of electricity but you can ensure that they are paying for the infrastructure from the distribution side to make sure that REC doesn't charge you more on the fixed cost as part of that so again not an expert but that's the breakdown I've been provided we'll try to get you some more information on that exact topic at a future meeting more questions can you speak to your water usage like what you're looking at on a daily basis we don't have the specifics on that I heard the earlier presentation and obviously that's significantly larger the water is not easily processed and that's not something that we're going to be able to do in the future and obviously that's significantly larger the water is not easily processed and that's not something that we're going to be able to do in the future as it's been explained to us and actually I'm working on a project in Strasburg it's recirculated there is some evaporation associated with that the buildings we're talking about here are consistent with the buildings that exist right next door so consumption is going to be a lot less and frankly what we've been told from the folks we've been talking with our water usage is bathrooms there's no processing water there's no water in terms of purchasing it using it as cooling it dumping it that I've seen on older structures and older industrial structures here even over the years but even those I believe have converted and you just recycle it and continue to use it so we believe it would it would be very very low and certainly not at the level of a terrible manufacturer certainly not like a food processor much to why it's Mr. Pierce's point we haven't analyzed that on a specific level with this case I mean we did come to this with a comp plan amendment application is the starting point you know if there's an interest in this site if there's a sense by the board and the Planning Commission that this site makes sense to consider for this use then as we move forward we'll gladly you know put together the rezoning materials and answer those questions and have those those types of data points in hand for you and that would be the exercise there again if there's not an interest in moving it forward much like the discussion earlier there was really no value in bringing a lot of that data you know to the table but if we move forward we'll certainly have those answers for you and for the public so where would you draw the water from this would be served by the Frederick County Sanitation Authority for Frederick Water So this community is very concerned about our water right not just because there's been a drought it's not necessarily alleviated but all by all the rain recently but long-term what can we support in development and it's not limited to data centers you know food processes in homes and all of that we can't destroy underground aquifers we can't ruin half our community half our population lives on their own home aerial waters and all other areas where we don't have those water sources. Wells so but I got news for the other half of us so do we because Winchester's water comes from Wells so that's why we're very anxious about it if it's more negative to draw if if the plan is to get it out of our underground right now we just don't know what our capacity is what we compare if for any business not just yours if they could proper that their water usage could be drawn from elsewhere now it's not that far away but as the previous one if they're drawing from the pipeline which means they're paying a higher rate or Frederick water is bent piping it to you but they are getting the income so that they can supply you with water from a river somewhere and not from our underground I'm speaking for a lot of people or maybe I'm wrong but on the board and Commission that that's one of the things that we're trying to do is to get the main concerns we have it could be a living alleviated with any major water usage how to minimize the impact on our underground waters it's not as simple as that the river in a drought runs dry before underground and they tend to buy from us and then as the water comes back and River fills up the underground water table hasn't restored yet so we're now buying from them it's much more complicated than I described But nonetheless, I myself would be not in favor of approving most any development that has a large impact on our 100 grand water. I just won't vote for it. We don't believe we do. We have a large impact. And certainly we would be pleased to work on the water issue as it's been presented and raised. We have a great background working with the employees, for example, that discharge a significant amount of water on a daily basis. And we suggest that that be used. If you're throwing it away, why not use it to clean it up and run it through the wastewater treatment plants and then discharge it to the Apacanumab. But that's certainly a countywide issue. And it relates to all use. But to the extent we go forward, we'd be pleased to work on that with you all. Because I think we've got good answers for that. Very good answers. I wouldn't comment on the idea. Well, this is down the road from your house, so I knew you weren't going to be able to resist. No. No. Because it's my field. When they say don't keep the water recycled, you can't do that forever. As you evaporate the water. The salts and all collect the metals. Whatever is in the water becomes concentrated and you have to discharge it and start over with clean water. So it's not like they could, oh, we'll just take a little bit of water and we're just going to keep it flowing and flowing and flowing. That is not how it works. They're going to have to keep it concentrated, dump it, get more water, get concentrated, dump it, get more water. And you know how I feel about that. So where would you dispose of the water? Do you know now where you would hook up? Again, we'll be happy to talk about. You're asking for the specs on a building that hasn't been designed. Of course, it hasn't been approved and so on. And to this point, there are buildings that we have now that use closed-loop water systems. We're clearing the rain. We're removing it. We're doing the street. Your office building, which was our office building before, was sold to the county. It has that system. And whether it's still in use, I don't know. But they're in operation all over the city. But again, we'd be happy to give you the engineering specs on that. The key is we're not using water on a constant basis to cool and then letting it discharge out the back. It's a recycling system. It's a recycling system. Water costs money. I share your water concern. And as you know, those of us that are connected to Frederick Water have gone through, I don't want to call it rationing, but we've certainly had times over the last several years where they've said dial back your usage and let your truck get dirty and let your grass turn brown. So I understand that that's important. And that can affect an industry that's hooked up to these lines as well because they're going to. They're going to get a reduction. But we can, through either a rezoning process, CUP process, we can say, hey, use air cooling. Use something other than water cooling because our water is pretty precious to us as we grow. And we want to preserve that and take care of it for the use of our citizens. And I think we can work in that direction to say forget the water cooling. Do something different. Come up with a better idea. And we heard someone earlier talk about, you know, we can engineer solutions. And, yeah, I love to engineer things and engineer solutions all over the place. And I know there's ways to do that that can be equally beneficial for all the parties. So I'm not in favor of water cooling these facilities if we end up with someone. And to be fair to businesses like this one, it's also partly the job of the county to make, to save what water it can. Long ago, reservoir was considered, you know, those are very expensive things in the county. But on a smaller scale, we might need to look at things like retention and detention ponds. Things that we can build piecemeal as things happen in the county so that water doesn't all run off when we have heavy rains like we do now. These ponds fill for a time and they allow the water to seep back down and restore. There's other things we can look at as well. And I think it's important. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Also on planning commission in the county government to just start thinking more about water from our end as well. It's not just that we put it all on people coming to us with their projects. Other questions? Supervisor Dunn. A couple comments more than anything else. Talking about water, other businesses come into this county. If they're going to need water, it's the same issue. We have houses that are being developed. That becomes an issue. Conversations with Eric. Eric Lawrence. He has said that they are looking for, you know, more water. So as this county expands, the water is also trying to go and expand that. So if we're going to have a discussion on water, again, I'm going to make the comment to go forward with this, have the study to see what the data says, not just to make, you know, comments by supervisors, planning commissioners that are not experts. Just pull together the stuff and say, fine, if there's a water issue, how do you address it? If there's not a water issue, how do you address it? If not, to make it. If not, to make it. If not, to make it. If not, to make it. If not, to make it. We're short of water today. We've come through a two-year drought. I believe the Virginia said now we are out of that drought. But we're going to have other droughts in the future. We know that. But this county continues to grow from 100,000 people to 140,000 people. If we have 40,000 more homes, we're going to say, we need water. How do you address that issue? So I just think that we want to have a study to go forward on the comprehensive plan. We're going to take the risk if we go forward. But I think it's just smart to have the data on the table. on all the issues that are raised, whether it's power, whether it's transmission lines, generation of power, water, et cetera. And one component I'll make to this particular project, this particular project is, I think, less than 200 acres, the total. Is that correct? So now the question becomes if this went forward, do you want to have multiple small 200-acre, 100-acre, 20-acre data centers versus a large campus item? And so if this does go forward, at least I'd like to see in that study the pros and cons of a large data center campus type situation versus multiple small ones. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We recently had a case that both the Planning Commission and the Board took up where a resident in Middletown wanted to downzone their property, but it was going to impact an adjacent industrial property with zoning buffers that would have been imposed. That property, which many of us know as the Stowe Woodward facility, was being purchased to be a data center within that building. So that's a small footprint existing building that was going to be set up as a data center right next door to what us old-timers call the Western Union building that's down in Middletown that has been a data center for 10 years and is currently functioning as a data center. So we have data centers. We have data centers that are actually based on the data that we've been using and that's been used to run and running our data centers. data centers in Frederick County, they're not big like we saw with the previous proposal. They're very modest in size. And when I suggested earlier that we study where we want these, if they're going to come here, where do we want them? My thought is the more modest size type of data center in contrast to the extensive initial proposal that we looked at. So when you look at those buildings there south of Middletown, and you can swing by Schaefer's and get a barbecue while you're there, it's really good stuff. And look at the building sizes. You can even look at them on the aerial photos, and you'll get the size of those buildings. It's very modest for a data center proposal. Probably different in its function from what we saw earlier and what was being proposed initially, but that's where I think. We work with the EDA, the Planning Commission, the Board. Let's look at where we want these and what they look like. What do they colorize? What do they smell like? Do we want them at all? And figure out where we want them so that it's a positive for everybody. Thank you. What I was going to say, there's so many unknowns on data centers that we don't really know where we're going to go with these. But I go back to what Mr. Liero said. If there's a consensus from the Board and the Planning Commission, that we don't care what they come in with, we're not going to approve it, we should not make the developer go through the expense of answering all of our unknowns to come in and have us say, well, that's nice. Thanks a lot. We're not going to approve this anyhow. So I think before we, I mean, I think we ought to study this and go forward with it and get the information we need to be able to make an informed decision instead of reacting emotionally. But to do that, that means the developer's going to have to spend money. And if our intent three months from now or six months from now when they come in with the rezoning is, thanks a lot, we're not going to approve it anyhow, I don't think we ought to waste their time. Sure. Quick comment. This is to all of you, all of us. The question is, do we as a Planning Commission Board of Supervisors, do we say, just to get the applicant for a moment, do we say, fine, do you want to have data centers or not? If so, where? I've had conversations with Pat Barker for the last couple of years. He's been a great advocate for data centers. He's been a great advocate for data centers. He's been a great advocate for data centers. Pat Barker has been a great advocate for data centers for the last three years on this issue. And there's been discussion on data centers coming in here. And so now that we have them on here, now there's, you know, opposition, which is fine. It's a free country. But if we as a county can say, fine, do you want to have them, yes or no? Because that would then give an indication to people that are coming in, yay or nay. And then if they do come in, where do they come in? And then thirdly is, how do you go and zone that? Do you zone that as an M1 with a CUP? Or do you zone that as a C2? And then thirdly is, how do you go and zone that? Do you zone that as a T-M? Or do you zone that as a T-P? But do you zone that with a T-M so that a person comes in and doesn't have to go through that, which is their attraction, so you have something, trouble ready to go? So I don't know if this is the venue to do that, but I'd like to see us as a county just say, do you want them? If so, where? And then that gives an indication to all businesses on our overall view one way or the other. So Mr. Chairman, Mr. Pearson, any comments or thoughts on that? Can I? Yes, go ahead, please. May I? Yes, please. EDA has been working on this for two, three years now, and every year they bring their plan to this board as far as targeted industries. And this board has continually endorsed those plans that we are interested in having data centers. So if this board is no longer interested in that, then we need to make that message to the EDA so that we're not just spinning. We need to be the ones spinning our wheels, doing the work, and putting in the legwork to attract these businesses. But we've all endorsed that. I know. And we've all endorsed that. And now the first one that comes through, we've said no thank you to, and we'll see what happens with the second one. So that's just kind of where my thoughts are. I'm just... If I may? Yes, sir. What you just said comports with Molly's comment earlier about we need a survey and ask the people. And if the people of the county are dead against it, we would not be the first county that said no. There are other places where they said, no, we don't want them. What happens? Well, they find other places because they're fungible. They are not related to the local population. They're not dependent on the people of Winchester because they can be located anywhere and all they are is the cloud. So I think you're absolutely right. I think the same falls with different subject. We need to have a discussion about where we stand on RA west of 81. Do we really mean that or not? Let's get clear on a policy for that. Let's get clear on a policy for data centers. And a good way to start is to... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I think it's an important question. I think it's an important question. I think if we're going to ask the question, are you for or against it? And like you said, where would they go? Where is a good place for it? I think asking that kind of question independent of any applicant for data centers is something that should be done. Mr. Barker, my only comment is that I want those people that are saying yay or nay to truly have a good understanding in depth before they say yay or nay. I don't want this to be a motion that would be a good thing. I don't want this to be a motion that would be a good thing. I don't want this to be a motion that would be a good thing. I want to be able to first it says first ingested yes or no. So it's the question of power How is it generate answer the question of transmissions answer the question of water answer the question like cause not option What's the balance point between power and generation if they can do that? Then I agree. I agree with you partially And by that I mean it's not personal you Charlie. Well, I'm an engineer to live and die with data But there's an emotional part of the county of the people That has to be considered. I agree And I just want to have that emotional component based upon good data And then if you have you open the data and come up with a different conclusion, that's perfectly fine. I would like to have People that know it and I've got so many emails with inaccurate comments that that gives me the pause to say fine That's this one. Yep. It's fair The people in this county don't want a deserves you can call it emotional all you want If you really think that's the way that the county should go It is up to you to get the information and give it to them so that they can have Make a choice, but I do not think we should move forward any data center without finding out from the people because They're not going to be able to get the information That's the only way I'm going to go with that I'm going to go with that because Everybody is a stakeholder in this it will change the county. We're not talking about these little ones like they're going to pop up if they're looking at this county and I've just seen too much Things are approved 24 years ago, and then they cause a mess today Think about it do the homework Understand what it's going to do to property values because the That's what greatly affected Loudoun County That's what made it so grandma can't retire and kids can't get started It is not an isolated place on where is the eyesore and it's not all emotional I have been researching this a long time I haven't even gotten into the lithium batteries that take a ton of water To put out because you can't suffocate them. They oxidize themselves You have to cool them You have to get the fire out and that is copious amounts of water. This is not emotional This is we are not ready to tell anybody to spend a lot of money to bring those There's too much work to be done and it matters what the people think And if they want Any more questions from the board or Commission I'm sorry I'm sorry You have a consensus already developed or do you want to call your numbers hold them sir, mr. Whitaker? Nein No I don't see We'll put the court before the horse So many questions I Pre like molly brought up when you you reuse and water and it gets strong more and stronger with the contaminants, so it's the county gonna be reliable or Is the company going to pre-treat it? And then they worry about getting rid of the toxic substances Where does the county have to treat it afterwards and get rid of the top six up? substances or are they are gonna just Discharge it back into the river. There's just too many unknowns to be talking about growth. We should be talking about sustainability. How can we sustain ourselves? I just see like the carts before the horse. That's the only thing I can say. Mr. Hagan. I understand the question we're asking, whether this parcel should be forwarded with a comprehensive plan overlay to M1 consistent with its adjoining parcels, right? Not necessarily it's going to be a data center. Should this go forward for study? I'm in favor of moving it to be consistent with the industrial uses that are near it and adjoining it. If further down the road there was questions specifically about specific data center use, I have some real concerns about buffering and all the other issues that have been spoken about specifically with the adjoining residential or the near-distance parcels. I would move it to be a nearby residential. But for consistency with the comp plan, I would move forward for study. I agree with Mr. DeHaven and as far as the data center goes, if it does go down that road, this kind of gives us the opportunity to maybe set some specifications on how we want it done and do it the right way. I agree. I think we can do it without this project. I vote no. This rezoning is attached to enable the development of a data center. It is not isolated to just make it equal. It's a big fat no until we find out from the people. Is this what we want our county to turn into? No. That's right. I think we should go forward with study as a comp plan amendment. I have reservations about going forward with the study because water is not going to be used. So I would be a no. You're evenly split. That's not uncommon, sir. You'll have to yell at the ones who didn't show up. OK. No, I appreciate. So from this board. Exactly. Again. And I'm absolutely concerned about the resources. I'm a no. I'd be a no as well. I'm concerned about the water usage. So I'm a no. I mean, yes. I think you go and get the data center. You get the data first and then you make the decision. They're taking the risk to do that. So I'd say you go forward with it. I like the idea of the moving forward being consistent, but because it is written here, data center, I'm a no. Once again, we have a consensus. So majority before we get to you. I mean, there's no reason for me to say one way or the other, but I certainly appreciate most of the argument. So that's. Mr. Chairman your thoughts. I don't know enough about the impacts. Mr. Pearson. If we signaling to the industry that we're not interested at this point to any data center tagged project. And if we are for now. There seems to be a consensus for that. However, that doesn't prevent the county from still trying to learn more about data center. So, he's taking us to as far as the. You know, his car outdoors, maybe tailored with a tag number, the airport and so forth, that anyone that finally becomes ahead is now employed. And so, the question should be. Omitted as, well, how is this going to work appropriately for all of us and there's. So that would be a separate discussion to how much thought we want to put into data centers. So that we can put it properly to the public and see if they want to or not. We have a comprehensive plan update coming up that dovetails nicely with it. I have a little bit of concern that we're going to transform my comprehensive plan update into a referendum on data centers. But it will definitely get the public to show up and participate, which PISA normally does that. So I'd be fine with that instead of this. But yeah, we can figure out a process that works to achieve both goals. And whether we have any locations that seem to be a perfect fit, both for their requirements and for the community. Yeah. Maybe there are none that would satisfy the community. Yeah. I mean, it's a phased approach to figuring that out. There are only certain areas in the county that are practical. And then you would have to determine if those same practical areas are preferable. And I think the second part of that is the hard part. And it's not a simple answer, but it's a hard answer. Especially from what we've heard today. So to the public, from my point of view, I was asked. So I've been a no as well in our current state. However, I want to share one thing that Mr. Pearson educated me on. I think it was you, to the public. And that is there are impacts on worried about our water, etc. We've talked about it a lot already today, but there are some impacts we can't avoid by saying no. There's a lot of data centers in Loudoun County, right? Where do you think? from those transmission lines run through our county and there are projects already on the board to run higher power through the county so it's again complicated they may go somewhere else if we say no great for us however like with traffic on 81 that doesn't mean there's not going to be traffic impacts on us in the sense of power or even water if they're in a nearby County so it does bear studying even if we're inclined against this time I just think one comment Molly and I have some differences but I like to go and see if the county I don't know how we do this I'd like to see if the county can go and run a town hall meeting if you have any questions Mr. Pearson, Planstead. Molly you can go up and make comments on it. I'd like to have people from the water from FedEx Water come in and talk about water. I'd like to have people from power generators and power transmitters come here. All of you that have reasons opposed I'd like to hear all your reasons opposed I'd like to have experts come in and address those and at least then we would have collectively you know at least a baseline on here's data and where you think and I don't know if that's possible or not I don't know I don't know if it's a one-off thing. I don't know if it's a one-off thing. I don't know if it's a one-off thing. I'm just gonna throw that out as a thought process for all of us so we're all working off the same set of data on that. For example this Mrs. Brannon said batteries etc. we haven't had a talk on that. If she's an expert on it I want to hear it and I want to hear somebody else that says yes it's a breeze or no it's not. On Frederick Water we've had the conversation on Frederick Water but the question becomes if the ABC company comes in here and uses water are we gonna have that same issue? We still have six, seven, eight, nine, ten years of water use. We still have six, seven, eight, nine, ten years of water use. We still have six, seven, eight, nine, ten years of water use. And actually the only question we had was six, seven, eight, nine, ten thousand houses are meant to be built here. They're already approved, lots are approved how do we deal with that issue? So I'd like to be able to pull together the issues that this data center is causing and all fronts and people that are knowledgeable in data so that you can walk through here's what I don't like and here's what I do. And walk through the issues whether it's energy powered location etc and try to get that which then says a a comment to the industry yes we want them no we don't want them this way we want them here and we're gonna right this particular day we're gonna talk about energy powered. do and walk through the issues with energy power location etc and try to get that which then says a comment to the industry yes we want them no we don't want them if we want them here and whether they want to be ready TM or we want to have them as a m1 with a CEP and that might be helpful just to the county but as mrs. slaughter said we've been approving this with EDA now you had two negative projections and so where do we go from here that's all I hope that that might I moved in thinking there are going to be data centers I assume that people are already consulted but it can't be a closed loop of just the people with the land like all of these wells all of these people yeah collect this land and then we can't just leave it there and then we can't just leave it there and then we can't just leave it there and then we can't just leave it becomes a group that is important it's their county to start asking the public every time we have a rezoning I mean we're gonna ask them if we want to have a you know if you have a 200 acre industrial reason are we gonna do a referendum and say okay I'll think that we want to have 90,000 people voting whether we're going to do every rezoning that's our judgment you know that that's our judgment well it should be and that's why we should you know I'm not sure about asking about data centers I mean that's the reason it's suggested is because it's a new to the county now it's not entirely new we have the FBI dentist data center near my house we do have other facilities that work and they're not too upsetting to their neighbors to my knowledge because they're small we're talking about large or a high-end scale data centers that's new for us you've got to know what we're getting into where we go from small to hyper is 10 acres 50 acres that's common mr. Pearson gave us a show this is slide at the very beginning listed all the criteria by which we would make a decision the very last one was is it a benefit to the citizens or or words to that effect and and you none of us could go shopping at a data center none of us can subscribe and use our cloud at the data center that's a piece of the fabric of the country not something that benefits the local people except in a very obtuse way so all I'm gonna say is that we can't buy a data center that's gonna be bought by a local resident and that's not gonna be bought by a local resident. I shouldn't say that. I have to mention that it's only money. The only benefit to our community is money. The tax on the equipment. That's it. And that's what still comes. You get more money from hyper than you do from little. That's what I was going to say. It is a benefit to the people. And the fact that in the same way we bring all industry in, it's a benefit because of the tax revenue. And we are working on a board that I'm going to call out really quick. We like to spend. We're not very good at reining in our spending. And so with that being said, we have to look at ways to generate revenue, which is why we're in this boat, which is why we deal with any rezoning. And so it becomes really a catch-22. And I hate to say it, but the lesser of two evils. Because everybody out there wants that fourth high school. Right? They want those things. Everybody out there wants to fund the outside agencies. We feel the need to keep spending. We have to find a way to lessen government or we have to, industry is the way to solve that. Because it pays for our roads. It pays for our infrastructure. Data centers, and a positive note, I just voted no, but in a positive note, doesn't bring the traffic. No. We are not doing water. But so does approving huge rezoning on homes, which I'm passionately against. So we do need to have a heart-to-heart as to what do we want. Because I get slammed for not wanting to spend. It's a trade-off. All right. I get slammed for not wanting to spend. I'm taking bullets here and there for not wanting to spend. I don't want to spend additional money out of the capital fund. I didn't want to approve the weapons detection out of the capital fund. I wanted the schools to pay for it. Here we are, though. So we've got to figure out. We've got to figure out. We've got to figure out a way to collect revenue. And the people are passionate. They're passionate. They want all the things. But they don't want to get them. So it's hard. And I'm very torn on this. Because industry takes water. Industry does tractor. If it's a warehouse facility, we have tractor trailers. People don't want that either. So when we poll the people, they want all the things. But they don't want any of the. And we've got to link them. Yeah. We've got to figure out. What do we want? Just a quick comment in kind of support of what Supervisor Lockridge is pointing out. As a community, we've always had a certain split between commercial taxes and real estate taxes. And as the houses continue to build out, buy right, that were approved decades ago, if that real estate or if that tax percentages start to shift heavier to real estate, your focus and your only lever to pull then is real estate. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So real estate tax rate, which no one really wants to pull. So continuing to have a focus on what that balance is, and supporting industrial and commercial development helps, I think, keep that balance to your point. Yes. I agree. Thank you. Yeah. Well, I agree. I'm on the side of controlling spending. But if you can raise revenue in ways that don't hurt the community, that's. Don't hurt the community. That's the trick. So they need. Could we stay on topic? Certainly. I know everybody talks about Austin and everything, but I've got other things to do. Well, we finished our consensus on this. We're good to go now. I think we did. Thank you. We're all done. Okay, anything more from the commission? Thank you. Thank you. We're adjourned. Thank you. Thank you.
