Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-10-22
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=300
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you The American Pronunciation Guide Presents ''How to Pronounce Space Ashland'' you you you you you you you you you 530 we're gonna take this thing off and welcome an introduction Diane courage chair of the CEA. Thank you all for being here this evening farmer in Frederick County Leslie Spencer member of the CEA um fire farmer Wendy Dorsey, member of the CEA. I have a native plant nursery and live in Gainesboro District. Yes, I do. Wyatt Pearson, planning director. Bishop, we've met. Michael Hoffer, county administrator. Jason Akins, Gainesboro supervisor. Bob Leroy, Shawnee supervisor. Red Bud, or Blaine Dunn, Red Bud supervisor, who used to live next to a farm, now called Southern Village. Bob Wells, O'Pagan. I don't live next to a farm. Thank you for my book. Leslie, she gave one. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Judy McCann, Slaughter, Stonewall District, and also the board's liaison to the conservation easement. John Jewell, chairman of the board. Thank you all for being here today. So, presentation. Yes, sir. Mr. Bishop. A presentation to hopefully feed into a meaningful conversation between the authority and the board. I'll kick right into it here. Right now, in terms of existing conservation of Frederick County, county acreage, you know, 416 square miles, I believe, 266,000 acreage. Current preservation, of course, we have the George Washington National Forest at about 7,600 acres. Total various park properties is approximately 700 acres. Battlefields, another about 400 acres. You have almost 10,000 acres in conservation. And I did jot down the two most substantial holders there, the Virginia Osmores Foundation with just under 6,000 acres. And the Potomac Conservancy with nearly 2,000 acres. In the past two months, I've talked to them about two more properties. So, they're very active here. We've got a great relationship with Avery over there. This is a version of the map we have on our conservation easement authority committee page. What we did is we went ahead and also layered the TDRs on top of the conserved properties. So, those acreages that I was just listing off to you a minute ago are all represented in the green here. But then in TDR properties, you have all these identified as well. Just to jot on a couple more statistics at you, in terms of actually severed development rights from TDR properties, you're up to about 6,000 acres, just over 6,000 acres in preserved land via that tool. And if you also look at your ag and forestal districts, which I guess I'll call that conservation light, since they have to renew every five years and they can request to come out and that sort of thing. That's still very substantial at just under 18,000 acres. So, we have a lot of those are not on this map. So, you're currently on the map. You're on the map. So, your current buy right development, as you know, is one dwelling unit per five acres. That's your buy right and your RA. Now, your total RA parcels of 10 acres or more in the county is 176,000, just over of acreage. And that translates in a very rough calculation. Of course, you're not talking about slopes. You're not talking about where you can get a drain field and all that, those kind of fun things. But very rough math. That transfers to just over 35,000 potential. And that's a lot of the units that you're going to be able to get. So, that's a lot of the units that you're going to be able to get. Now, if you were going to do a real detailed analysis, that number would come down fairly significantly. But it's just kind of meant to make a general point there. Particularly in the early 2000s, around the time I came to the county, there was a very busy time there for your rural preservation and your buy right five-acre lots, which quieted down a lot after the 2007 year after the crash. And it was a lot of work. And I think that's important to remember, because again, you're not talking about a lot of the units that you're going to be able to get. So, the first thing I want to talk about is the cost of development. And I think we talked about this a little bit in the beginning. But the cost of development is a lot higher than the rising cost of development in the UDA. There is increasing development pressure on these RA zoning districts. And for one of the first times ever, we've got national homebuilders that are starting to buy up those kind of lots, which previously they wouldn't touch them. We've got some water and water hot spots. We've got the poll tresures they've done in Estrella as well, trying to make sure that they're nicely." The ability to harvest is very, very good. The ability, we had to make sure everyone was patience when we were come in because we were losing probably four라고 hair. Two things. First of all, when when you pass that notice on the criança riding test retour, they take care of anything and everything. So we know that that looks good with theobra. Now, however, with the work that's been going on with the TDR piece of it, that's been a little bit back burner just to keep from kind of muddying everything up with code changes all at the same time. Now, all of these programs do help to preserve rural land and keep residential development within the UDA where services are most concentrated. Also within the UDA is where it tends to be, of course, most economical to expand the needed services when the growth does occur. The more dispersed we are, the more expensive that can be to provide not just the schools but transportation to the schools, sewer water service as it becomes greater in demand as drain fields fail, all that sort of fun thing, and of course transportation services. The TDR program as currently structured does have that effect of circumventing proffers that would normally offset development impacts. So that's the challenge you face. It's a tradeoff. It's sort of an eyes wide open decision. So part of the discussion is how to progress from here. Some good things have been done, but obviously there's a lot of acreage that's not necessarily protected at this point. So I've jotted down a few things based on the discussion at the last CEA meeting and also just kind of a few John Bishop whimsy's as I went through talking about these different things. But probably the most important thing as part of our comprehensive plan update is to create a defined conservation ethic statement of where the board is in more specific terms of how to prioritize what we are trying to preserve because that means different things to different people. For example, we've had at this point one on one meetings I believe with all of you and in every one of those it has been discussed the preservation of rural lands. What does rural mean to you? What does it mean to you? And we've met of course not only with you but with our planning commissioners and the answers we're getting, they vary. To some people that five acre buy right development, that's rural. To others, heck no, that's not rural. So that's going to be an important discussion going forward in your confines deliberations. So you create that defined conservation ethic and define what it is you're trying to preserve. Is it views? Is it a type of activity? Whether it be agriculture, active passive recreation, agritourism. One thing that was discussed at the last CEA meeting was the importance of the limestone belt in Frederick County and what that means for water quality and water preservation, tree canopies, biodiversity. And another way to kind of continue to push that conservation ethic is to champion existing programs in a more visible way. Because there's a seven to one. I'm repeating it. I'm repeating what somebody else told me. Return on investment in tourism. So it's one of those great bang for the buck type items. And we have a number of great resources existing in this county. We have a number of century farms. We've got farm markets all over the place. The homesteader group is very active. They've been holding a number of events. They're super put together. Short term rentals. I mentioned that because at a recent planning conference we learned how Shenandoah County is actually partnering. And we're going to be partnering with the folks who have short term rental and trying to in concert with promoting the county also providing links to where they can get their short term rentals ends up also being a set incentive for those people offering these short term rentals to operate on the right side of your ordinance. Driving and biking tours. One thing we've talked about kind of conversationally in the planning department over the years is like virtual driving tours where people are going around visiting the site. And we're going to be doing that. And we're going to be doing that. And we're going to be using these The other big way to how to progress in terms of true conservation and actually preserving more land is really it comes down and takes money to make money. Something carried over from the transportation space. Jerry Kopp said it all the time when we were at public meetings that I've found myself saying it a lot as well over the years. Because all these efforts take a lot of work and a lot of investment. Most of them are not free. That comes down to staffing. Like it or not, we are limited in our existing staffing in the planning department. So how do we put the actual manpower in place the way it needs to be to do all the things you're trying to do? Volunteerism, however, is also another way to at least help get to that point. Fundraising needs help. And by that, I mean more outreach, probably improving our web presence. We do have the CEA portion of our website. But if you're not looking for it, you're not going to find it. I mean, we have a lot of things on the county website. Is there another way to try and make that more visible and more out front? I don't know. We've talked about mailers. I've been in conversations. Right now, the treasurer does not allow us to do, and I'm not trying to put treasurer on the spot, be clear here. But for various reasons, we're not allowed to do. Like I said, we're not allowed to do mailers. We're not allowed to do mailers. Stuffer when the tax bill goes out or something like that. That would be nice because it's a great economy of scale. However, in lieu of that, I have been at least talking to them down there. They're very open about using their equipment and things like that. So we were talking about potential costs for doing a mailing, things like that. Once again, helped get the word out. Potential funding sources. Also, rollback taxes. I know you guys, as a board, already find ways to spend that money. But I'm just saying that there's a certain linkage between that particular revenue. So, yeah, I'm not sure. source and maybe doing conservation activities. The solar fees have been discussed now a number of times as something that potentially makes sense, once again, for conservation. But even the general fund, depending on where the board wants to go. There are a number, and this is where it takes money to make, that's the key part of where it takes money to make money, comes in with the grants. There's a number of grants out there that can be used for these type of activities in terms of actually the purchasing of the easements and that sort of thing. But typically, it's a 50-50 match. So if we don't have money to match, it's very hard to be applying for the grants to actually get anywhere. And that was some years back following the snap easement that we did participate in. There were board funds and grant funds involved in that. The planning department kind of tried to get it going again, but the money just wasn't going to be there. So it's a 50-50 match. So it's a 50-50 match. It wasn't available. Those were tough years and everything for the board with the budget, but that also made it harder to kind of follow up on that success. That's a quick and dirty of kind of where the thinking is now and where we are. And I'm going to turn it over to Diane, but if I can put the staff bent on it. My perception of where we're trying to get is just an open discussion between the easement authority and the board on kind of where you want to go, how willing you are to get there, and how dedicated you are to get there. Because obviously, there's a very important budgetary piece that goes to all that as well. With that, I will shut up, answer questions that want to be asked, and go from there. Thanks, John. Yeah. So I mean, I think John has outlined pretty clearly there are different levels of conservation stuff. And we have the bottom ones, you know, ag districts and sort of PDRs, which I would personally say needs to continue to be revamped. I'm not sure the way it sits right now, that program will be super successful because there's not a lot of receiving areas left. The PDR program is something yet to be considered. Again, that's going to take money, but it does extinguish development, you know, but it's like you got to pay ahead of time for, you know, and then you get the benefits down the road, which is something to consider. We have the Conservation Easement Authority, which can hold easements. And we do hold that one, you mentioned the SNAP one. And I'll tell you right off the get go, the reason we got that is because the state had written their, the code for that a little bit lax. And so we sort of slid under the wire. And that's how we didn't have to match. We matched with federal funds, that was not their intent. But anyway, we did it, we got it in, it's co-held with the Potomac Conservancy. So they've been stewarding that. And so that's good. I know, and the other thing I'll just say is background. I know that when the easement authority was formed, it was formed mostly to provide a voluntary tool, if there were a specific thing to Frederick County that needed to be eased, right? Because we do have all these other entities that work in this area. Potomac Conservancy is focused on water. You have Virginia Outdoors Foundation, which again, is that's more sort of open ground. You have another thing that hasn't been mentioned is the Battlefields Foundation. And so that's a little bit of a different thing. But anyway, we did it. We got it in, we got it in, and we're going to do it again. So that's another thing that hasn't been mentioned is the Battlefields Foundation. They hold easements here. And so that's another, I mean, they have money is the answer to that one. So anyway, so what I think from the CEA's point of view, and from Diane, I'm going to start beating my drum. I really want us to have a better vision for what we want Frederick County to be. Like, what do we want this to look like? And that's sort of what the conversation centered on our last meeting. It's like, what do we want to do? And so that's sort of what we're going to do. And so that's sort of what we're going to do. And so that's sort of what we're going to do. And so that's sort of what we're going to do. What do we want to preserve? Because if we can sort of figure out and come to consensus, obviously, we're taking your all's, you're the one that giving us the marching orders. What do we want to conserve, then we can try to figure out programs and work with other people to make that kind of thing happen. What John suggested was all of those things, which is great. You know, there's views on activity, agriculture, which may or may not have to do with soil conservation, water conservation, and air conservation. That's sort of where we ended up. I think the consensus on the easement authority was like, we want to make sure that we have good soils in Frederick County for agriculture, for whatever else it might be down the road. We need to do that. Some ag is probably better than others for soil, but, you know, we need to think about that. Water conservation is probably a more eminent thing. And it's like, so as a result of that, are there areas that we want to say that, yeah, maybe we don't need to build a bunch of them. Maybe we need to do a little bit more on the riparian side of things. You know, we have partners in that to do that with. And then just air quality. We can't do a lot about the stuff that's wafing toward us from whatever, but we can provide environments like with a lot of trees and a lot of greenery that help filter that kind of stuff. You know, and so it's like, what do we want to do with this? And so that's where I'm hoping to hear sort of your all's input on what do we want, because we would like to have, all right, we're going to have a lot of trees that are going to be able to be used for the future. But we're going to have to figure out what kind of direction. And this is the kind of stuff we want to conserve. We'll try to figure out who we partner with and what programs we do and what kind of metrics then we will then use to figure out, are we getting anywhere? Are we moving the needle? Are we doing anything? But right now, I feel like we don't have a clear picture of what we want to do. And so that's number one. What do we want to conserve? What do we want? What do we want Frederick County to look like in five years, 10 years, 15 years? We might as well shoot for the minute. Could you give me your thoughts on what you would like to see? Yes. You say we haven't come to a welcome. And I'm not saying my crystal ball is super clear right now. No, I understand. On the ag side, because that's what I do. I'm an agriculture. I think what I would like to see is the opportunity for lots of small farms. I think we are past the big farm phase here in Frederick. Small farm being 20 years? Small farm being 20 years. Okay. If it's a five acre buy right kind of thing, can we help people do something with the remainder of that five acres? I understand. Yeah. And it would be, in my mind, it's niche agriculture that's going to be focused at selling to the people here and to the east of us that have money. And so it's that kind of thing. And so local farmers market, that is. Okay. Okay. Okay. So that's sort of where I see ag going around here. What I would like to conserve is, yes, I think it's going to be really important to save water quantity and quality. Both of those. Soil, yeah. Commercial agriculture sometimes does things to soils which are not super duper. So we need to sort of drill down and figure out which ones we think are better. We have soil belts in Frederick which are karst. Which are great for ag. But guess what? That's where the perc sites are. You know? So it's like maybe we need to think about that. You know? At the areas that haven't already been, you know, entitled to develop. Air? Yeah. It's about having enough trees and things to filter what we have. So enough green space to help that happen. Exactly what that is, I don't know. But that's what I'm trying to do. Okay. But that's where we're going to have to start talking to some people that can do, and tell me a lot more of the science than that is. What can we do? How can we help this? Are there some plants that are better than others? So we need to encourage people to plant that. You know? Or maybe use that as part of, you know, when you're putting the development up. This is what you need to plant. You know? That's sort of where my crystal ball is right now. I think agritour. Oh, and I would say too, the Battlefield Foundation. And that kind of stuff. I feel. Very strongly. That our area, not just Freddie, but all around. We have a huge asset in having that for tourism. We have something that other people don't have. We totally need to capitalize on that. And I know that they push it at the tourism thing, but we need to push it big time. You know? If we can couple Battlefield's tours with fill in the blank, whatever. Get somebody to come here. Spend their money. Enjoy it. And go home. I mean, seriously. I mean, you know, it's like. And he got the 7 to 1. Oh, wow. Because that was in the EDA meeting. And that's what Justin Courage at the Tourism Board pointed out. That that is generally what the return is. Which is pretty darn good. I want to hear what you all want to. What do you want for every county to look like? Can I? Can I? Let me ask you a question, Diane. Of course. From what I understand right now, I-81 is a divider. Everything east becomes developed. Everything west stays rural. Okay? You've been around here longer than I have. Farm. This area used to be farms. Apple farms. Which were highly productive. Now they're not as productive. The question becomes, you're talking about like niche farming, five acre farms, et cetera. Is that a item that will sustain a family? Or is that going to be an asset where the family is doing something else and they're doing farming for preserves in that rural area? That's question number one. Question two. Five acres is a small. I mean, five acres is small. And if you're going to go to do something for a profit, can you do that on five acres versus ten or fifteen? I mean, whether you're growing cattle or apples or wheat or whatever. I mean. Okay. To answer your first question, no, I would really hope it would be bigger than five acres. You know, that would be the ultimate goal. The reason I say do something on five acres is to draw people's attention to understand how things grow and how things are produced. To understand the value. Because the more people that move to our area. They're not connected with agriculture. So that's sort of why it's like if they can just grow a garden, if they can't have chickens in their backyard. You know what I mean? Anything sort of gets them moving in that direction. As far as the commercial side of things and making money. No, unless you're raising something like, you know, ginger or something. I mean, no, you're not going to make money on five acres, probably. But again, there's all these niche markets that we haven't truly looked at. Virginia Tech. That was one of the people that they talked about. Hiring for our extension center is like a niche market kind of person. It's like, what is there out there that we can do because we have good ag land and currently we've got enough water, et cetera, et cetera. And we're right next to these population centers. How do we capitalize on that? What can we do? You know, particularly as you point out, the apple industry is going, you know, at least processing around here. And now there's this acreage, you know, which, again, you're going to have to balance because, you know, it's like people count on that for money, you know. But at the same time. Exactly. Yeah. It's like they're not they can't do it with apples anymore. So what are they going to do? You know, my fear is that you're going to turn it into, you know, whatever the highest and best could be houses. It's sitting on course land. I've heard this said before, but you would know way more about it than me. But the commercial scale agriculture is when we're talking somebody having assemblages of land that are upwards of a thousand acres, all in a relatively close place. Right. Like that is kind of the scale that you're referring to. That is kind of going away, going away largely. Well, I can speak more probably to the apple industry than anything else. The apple industry, the trees have shrunk. And the latest and greatest is to plant things literally 18 inches apart and two feet. I mean, so you could you could actually if you get the right variety and you got enough money to because it's a lot of input at the beginning, you could probably make it pretty good in that world in with a couple of 300 acres. And so I would say from the plant side of things, if you've got, you know, 100 to 200, 300, you can you can do that. You don't need a thousand. And that's the midsize that you're talking about that you see things heading towards. Yeah, I think I think I think the days of a thousand, two thousand acres and a farm or a pod. I just don't see it happening. Wendy, Leslie, kick in if you've got thoughts on that. Let's see. I'll start by saying my husband, Tupper Dorsey, has been farming here for a long time and his parents before him and grandparents. And now our son works our farm. Our farms are now solely in Clark County. We have two farms in Clark County that are in conservation easement. We live at Lake. St. Claire in Frederick County. And my husband has been president of the board when he missed a meeting decades ago and everybody voted in president until not so long ago. But he left the presidency only after he succeeded in getting 100 acres of our community buffer property in conservation easement. We are we are. I am committed to this. I think it is. It accomplishes. Great many things as well as. From financial, too. So people often think that they are losing money when they put their property in conservation or they're giving a gift. And that's not exactly the way it happens. But it also really is shows that there is a commitment to the long term vision of the area in which we live, in which our children will live, in which perhaps grandchildren will live. Because things are moving at a very fast rate of speed. And if we don't start thinking about it seriously and get a vision for the future, it's going to happen, like Diane said, and it's going to happen. The beauty and the environment and the ecology are not going to be the primary motivating factors to those people shaping the way our county looks. Um, I. I'm just just things that have occurred as as I've heard this conversation. I have a native plant nursery. It is on less than a half of an acre in the middle of our farm. And I am making a profit on that. I am the only one. I don't have employees. I work really hard. I work a lot, but it is profitable. And so. I agree. I agree that to have a model of a five acre farm is not. You know, realistic to turn a profit or whatever. I do agree that encouraging landowners to do things on their property that are beneficial, not to them, but to the larger population is great. But what I'm saying is that it, you know. Small efforts can make a big difference. Um, and then, yeah, I guess that's really. What I have to say about all of this. I think it's really important. I think it's something that. We can't afford not to address. And giving people tools. To for them to make little differences in their property can. Can be invaluable. As far as giving them, you know, here's a list of plants that are very good plants that, um, are not as good. So, um, so I'm going to go ahead and get to that. I do have a couple of questions. I want to ask you about. I have a question. I want to ask you about, you know, what are your thoughts on how, how you're going to make a difference in your community? Because I think it's important. I think it's something that we. We can't afford not to address. And giving people tools. To for them to make little differences in their property. Can. Can be invaluable. As far as giving them, you know, here's a list of plants that are very good plants that, um, support our local ecology that provide plant food for the nature that lives in our county. Um, versus things that are non native and therefore not always, but sometimes invasive and we will take over the space of our native plants and cause, uh, problems. So I think it's important. That we. That we. That we. We can't afford to give them. Uh, well, the state of Virginia spends millions and millions of dollars eradicating non natives on state property. Um, public property. So, you know, anyway, I digress about all that stuff, but there are really good reasons to provide our citizens with information to help them make good choices as well as us making good choices. I can jump in. Um, 1, I want to say, thank you for the passion that you have. And I think it's important that we, that we have a community that is really, really, really important. I think that, um, that's what drives our work. I think it's important that we, that we, that we have the passion that you have. Two, two concern land in frederick county. That's tall three of you Buzzy. I didn't know that your nickname was Buzzy. Is that right? I thought I heard that, sorry. I was like, um, but the, um. But growth is here. I mean growth is in frederick county. We're not going to slow it down. Um, and so we need, I agree with you, Diane, that we do need a plan. And I mean John and I have talked a lot about having a strategic plan for frederick county. I think it's important that we have a plan for that. But I think we need to have a plan for it. But the growth is here. I mean, growth is in Frederick County, and we're not going to slow it down. And so I agree with you, Diane, that we do need a plan. And, I mean, John and I have talked a lot about having a strategic plan for Frederick County and what does it look like in the next 5 to 10 to 15 years, and this has to be a part of it. How do we achieve that? In my opinion, there's lots of levers that you can pull for that to happen. That can go in, that can be in concert with rural lands. So is that, I mean, you mentioned that, you know what, there's not as many receiving areas for TDRs as what there used to be. I mean, so we need to maybe take a look at that. Okay. Blaine, you mentioned, but you know what, there's always been a line. It's a pretty big and important line for Frederick County. It's called Interstate 81. That development's always been on the east side. But the east side of the UDA. And. In time, it's going to run out of land. And so the, as a county, we might need to look at that hard. Because we want to make sure development's where we want it as a county. Because if not, then the, as I think John mentioned, the large national developers are coming out. They're buying RA land that may be outside that UDA and may be able to do a buy-right development. Just not get the density that they would be, would get if it was in the UDA. So as a county, we need to decide, okay, hey, do we need, should we? I'm not saying we should, I'm not saying we shouldn't. Should we look at the west side and look, okay, do we need to re-look at where that UDA line is? In addition to that, if we're trying to preserve the land that's outside the UDA, then we need to really look at our density. Okay. Of what we can put inside. Okay. So if there's a, if there is a lot that is, and I'm sorry I can't rattle these figures off, I just don't know what it is. But let's say it's five units per ten acres. I'm sorry, I just fell into the figures. Should it be ten units per so many acres? Okay. To keep the development centralized in the UDA. To be able to keep the rural area outside the UDA rural. So there's lots of different things I think that we could do as a county. We need to all get on the same page of what those would be. But I appreciate that, like I said, I appreciate the passion that you guys have for this for the county because it is a, it's a piece of Ferdie County. One of the things that your comments make me think of is like, and I would love to figure out if there's science that would tell us water. What I'm getting at is like, we have one, you know. One for five, one lot per five acres by right. It's like, and what happens if you do that in particular areas? Is it sucking too much out of the aquifer at that point? Is there any way that anybody can tell you these kinds of things? You know, as far as basing some of this stuff on science too. And then the other thing I'd just say that is not really germane to this conversation, but fits in just hand in glove is what kind of industries do we want? You know, EDA kind of things. It's like, what are, who are we trying to attract here? Because this is going to cost money. I mean, you know, it's just like the conservation stuff usually is your, it costs you money up front. Plus it's like, that's, I mean, yeah, it's just like, how are we going to pay for this? And what kind of industry do we want in this area that fits in with our conservation plan? I agree with you. And on the water side of things, we need it. I'm a very much of an individual that operates based on facts. Okay. And there. Everybody's talking about the drought we're in and all the different things, but the whole East coast on drought, the majority of it. And how are we actually being impacted? I can't say what it is because I'm not an engineer. That's not my specialty, but there are people out there that could tell us how we truly are being affected. And so that we can find out what our mitigations need to be in that regard versus speculating what we should and shouldn't do. Well, one, I'll give you one fact that I know is like, in an area that we have apple trees in, in the Northern part of the county that has had recently a lot of development around it. The Springs run much less than they used to. And that was, this is not, this is pre-drought kind of stuff. And the question is why? You sort of, can you assume that it's because, you know, the wells are sucking out of the aquifer? I don't know. How do we figure that out? How do we know? You know, it's just like, yeah. It's just like figuring out the data. It's just like figuring out the metrics to help. It's going to be, but this is where we just got to start digging in and see what you can come up with. Yeah. Frederick County is a very unique place. You know, we're very, still very strong in our culture. It's, it's, it's interesting that in our public schools, we've got more ag teachers in this county than any other county in the state. So it still is very ag oriented. You know, I mean, with the FFA, 4-H, 4-H is blowing up. I mean, it's 200% above where it was. So we, the numbers are there that the kids were, that's part of it too, is, you know, we're sitting here talking about where do we want to see the county? But we got, we're looking at what are we doing to help these kids, our future farmers, grow and then here. All right. You know, you and I have had this conversation multiple times. And you went, now I'm going to, I'm going to shift and go to the business side of things. Yes, we need to decide what are we going to do? And one of the things that we've got to be very careful about with this county is we've got our precious resources. Water, we talk about it all the time. And that's something we've got to get a good handle on. Because in order to economically grow, you've got to bring business in. But you've got to be smart on what you're bringing in and how's it going to balance the ag culture. So you're absolutely right. And we've had this conversation multiple times. You know, and I think that's what we're trying to do is trying to figure out what can we do? What was it you said last night? We're growing up or? I said we're in our awkward middle school phase. Because we're over 100,000 now in population. And, you know, we are growing and we're going to continue to grow. So we've just got to be smart about how we do this. So you're right, Diane. It's on us to try to come up with a really smart strategic plan, understanding that, and balancing it. Right? And we need to understand what can we do to help the farmers. You're transitioning. The farmers are transitioning from apples to whether it's cattle. You know, diversification is going. Tourism, right? I mean, and absolutely. I mean, we've got a gem here with our battlefields. You're right. So and I talked to Chester Kearns about this. And they really are trying to work with tourism. So it's something that we need to be doing a better coordination job with all of them. Government entities that can help us. Whether it's, you know, tourism planning, extension agency, right? And coming up with a good game plan that's going to help us move this forward. So these are conversations that we are having. We understand that. Chime in. Apologies. On the water side of things. Because from a personal opinion standpoint, I've been watching for at least a couple years now. The board regularly taking an outage in from folks at the podium. Talking about their water and concerns over water. Just about every time you're looking at a land use action. I'm looking around for Frederick water. I just think that that conversation needs to be kind of ongoing, regular, frankly, very public. Because right now I have a perception, nothing more than that. That what the general public thinks is going on in the water may not be accurate. And what can we do as a county? To do a better job of painting the picture of where we truly do stand with water. In terms of availability and how soon we can deliver different amounts of water. It goes right back to what I just said. The coordination between our different agencies. I guess I would like to know the water study. There is a water study that the governor has initiated for the whole of the state, right? And so do we have a. A time frame as to when that will be completed. And secondly, to that point, with some of the development that's actually happened in the Stonewall District. I think one of the things that I wanted to be mindful of is that we did have a study before we approved certain things. Because we have had a rash of wells going dry. We've had a rash of springs going dry that fed the natural habitat of our wildlife and such. And so what we didn't really want to get London to try and understand in this information about the water очень due to. Perfectly. Threatened it does be truly a very competentDP. Spots I think in one perspective may be a million dollars worth but dollar, I think life a year, right? Or or something. It's totally it would still be gens that have the designs element is in the red there right there. Right there. Right there. So that's something I have to look for. adequate funding provided from the state to meet that deadline right now and they knew that when they passed the legislation they gave the whole state the whole Commonwealth $800,000 for all these PDC's to do regional water supply plan updates and if you parse that out amongst the different PDC's they've got like 16,000 bucks each right so our group has been struggling with do they come to the localities and ask for a per capita share based on population or water usage do they lobby the legislators to say look you you've asked us to update this plan but you didn't give us any money to actually do it and I think they're still cycling through that decision-making process was the last that I heard on that now I want to be clear though because I would participate in the water supply plan update that they did back in 2011 and it's not going to give you what I think you're looking for which is a carrying capacity estimation right like what can we draw out of the aquifer before the aquifer doesn't replenish itself and that's not the purpose of a water supply plan the closest thing we've had to that in this area is the 2005 USGS report that was done to study kind of our I guess geographic or geologic area and get a better idea of kind of what the recharge capacity was under the conditions in 2005 now the comments about development and its impact on that recharge capacity is real pavement you know does not allow the water to get back into the groundwater table and that's a major concern so all the science of 2005 is still accurate as relates to our recharge capacity the conditions not close anymore unfortunately so but that is something that I think we all want to know a better answer to frankly the expertise doesn't exist in Frederick County and it would not make a lot of sense for Frederick County itself to to conduct that study because our geologic conditions are not limited to our municipality's boundaries right like the water table is much larger than that so yeah and and Wyatt will you kind of get the background for why this water study came about what what sort of kicked this off because I think you have family members that have been a part of some of this issue yeah I mean there's been groundwater issues statewide or recently than there ever has been in the Hampton Roads area as soon as your firm to my brother works as a civil engineer and looks at very similar issues on a regular basis they have more issue with salination right the groundwater being contaminated with salt water more than anything but we've had regional water supply plans before the state took a keen interest in it beginning I think in 2018 finally passed legislation and started what we're what we're dealing with now as far as an update I think back in 23 or 24 I'm the deq's just been mobilizing to get this thing started since then and I think the the overall thrust and effort behind it is while there is a regulatory framework for what people pull out of the groundwater it's imperfect right so Frederick water goes and gets its permit for groundwater extraction and that has to go through deq and there's some some math that goes into that as well and they have a good idea of kind of what they think the carrying capacity is but environmental conditions continue to change development continues to happen and they're not exactly sure where all these different regional groundwater basins are so that's my understanding of why it became such a priority for the legislature is to update those water supply plans and I guess at this point you don't know what the funding mechanism would be and if this board should have some consideration for the legislative agenda to that end yeah I think that might be appropriate I can give Mike and reach out to Brandon Davis with NSVRC and see what we can do to get that done and I'm going to go ahead and get back to you in a minute. I'm going to go ahead and get back to you in a minute. I'm going to go ahead and get back to you in a minute. I'm going to go ahead and get back to you in a minute. I'm going to go ahead and get back to you in a minute. I'm going to go ahead and get back to you in a minute. I'm going to go ahead and get back to you in a minute. six months since I heard from them last about them lamenting the lack of funding about completing that initiative on time. I think it would be helpful, and I think it's an important priority if you are concerned about groundwater in Frederick, but I don't want to set the expectation that I'm going to be able to, the end of it's going to, in 2029, is going to deliver you your carrying capacity, because I don't think that will be a result out of that study. Thank you. Cool question. Eric Lawrence has said, you know, we're expected to have 23,000 people. So he says we have the water to do it. So is this on top of that, or do you want to address that? Yeah, that's separate, and I think I echo John's comments that when we get into this stuff and we talk about Frederick water, I think we could probably work better to ensure that if we're going to be talking about water, our water experts at Frederick Water are at the table. They recently completed a 20-year demand study that they've been presenting and that they're going to bring to the board, I think, early in the new year once they're confident that all the positions, the vacant positions have been filled. Speaking to what they anticipate demand to be and how they intend to meet it. When they, you know, do new groundwater taps, they do all the, you know, engineering expertise to make sure that when they're doing the drawdown tests that the groundwater table isn't responding in a negative way. So they'll run the pumps at full volume for five days straight, right, and continue to monitor the groundwater levels and areas around that to make sure that they're not overdrawing that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I hope that answered your question. Mr. Yeah. Well, I'll just make one comment to all of you as a thought process. Jason made a comment about I-81, you know, you have a line and you go one way or the other or you can go up. So that's one thought. Leslie had a comment in another meeting and she talked about the fact that if you made this area attractive, not pretty attractive, but like rural attractive, you could bring in a major corporation to put their headquarters here. Exxon went into Fairfax County a number of years ago, but Fairfax County has changed. I'm looking at Frederick County today the way Fairfax County was when I was a kid, Fairfax. So when I was a kid in Fairfax, there's a place called 29-7, you may or may not be familiar with it, called Tyson's Corner today. Those were fields. When you go to Prince William County, there's a route called 234. There's now 234 by-ways. 234 was fields. And so you've seen the development there and I don't think Prince William County did a good job on controlling the growth because it just happened. I can't speak for Fairfax County as well, but Fairfax County has grown significantly. So my comment to all of you would be if in 20 years you have certain areas that you've really preserved as a rural area, it's an attractive place to come, including having like the battlefield to go out and hike and walk, including having parks. You have to develop that with 12 to 13 acres. You have to develop that with 13,000 lots that are already going to be developed. Then you have to develop that with more people that want to come and say this is a nice community. And then instead of building outwards, you build up. I mean, I'm just throwing out some thoughts. And Jason, you know, you're a builder. So you can add to the conversation too. But Diane, that's kind of what I'm seeing. When we come back here in 25 years, what are you going to see? You see what happened in Loudoun County. I can show you what happened in Fairfax County. That's just a 50-year timeframe. So we can set the parameters. We can set the time frame. And Clark County has parameters. But Clark County has the advantage of having Loudoun County to the east, Frederick County to the west. So they have hospitals, schools. They have, you know, places to go, food, et cetera. And so they preserve themselves. But it's more an island than anything else. So there's a way to build parameters that help everybody. If I'm a developer, I want to say, hey, I need to make money. Where do I go? And if you tell me I can't do it all in Frederick County and I have to come from, you know, 30 miles away or 40 miles away, then your workforce here becomes difficult. And so that's a balancing act. On the same token, you know, how do you preserve what you have here so people can say, hey, I just want to go hiking. I want to get out of the woods. I just want to go to the AT or something, you know, Appalachian Trail. So that's – I leave you all with that thought. That's a – like Jason said, lay out – John, five-year plans. Lay out what you want to do and parameters of what you want to do in five years and ten years. And then what happens if that has to get done in the next couple of years just because of the development? We're building 1,000 houses a year. And like Jason said, if you have a national developer comes in and says, oh, buy, you know, 10,000 acres, then what happens? There are a lot of moving parts. And I totally agree with you. And I think it sort of goes – I think the conversation starts back with Bob Wells' question. What do you see Frederick County looking like? And then each person – I want to hear from each one of you. I mean, like, it's – there's not enough time tonight, but I'll probably contact you. But it's just like what – I mean, and you got to think about it because it's – there are a lot of moving parts. We got to pay for things. You can't have everything you want. And we do want to accommodate growth down the road. We do want to be that great place. But all I know is if we don't model that and shoot for it, you're not going to get it, you know. And so we got to do that. And now is the time. And yeah, you're right. The sooner we do it, the better. And if we can get it done in two years, awesome. But if we can – if it takes five, well, it takes five. But if we can – if it takes five, well, it takes five. You know, but we got to start somewhere. Mr. Chairman, go ahead. I'm sorry. It's fine. A couple things, Diane, I think you alluded to in your opening remarks. And one was that with regard to TDRs, we have less receiving areas. The Planning Commission had moved something forward to the Board, and we backed that off. And we're kind of on hold with that. But what that essentially did was reduce our amount. And so we're going to have to go back and address that. And I think the planning department had done a good job with putting forth that information to us so that we could have more receiving areas that would help our farmers. And I've heard from several people that they've been very concerned about the fact that the TDRs are going to be more of a receiving area. And I think that's a good thing. And I think that's a good thing. I've heard from several that this has sort of stopped some of this movement. So to the TDR issue, to the solar agreements, when you're talking about ways that perhaps there may be some additional funding, when we set up the solar ordinance, when we first started accepting the solar farms, and there's an ordinance on our books, that allows some of that funding to go to conservation. Right. And that was specific. And I made sure that we did put that in that language so that if the board at some point in the future, if the conservation authority came to the board and said, we have this project, or the board comes to you and says, we'd like you to focus on this project, then there would be a resource that could be earmarked because essentially that was the precipitous for the solar farms. And we successfully did it. Because what we're trying to do is to be able to do that. I think that's a good thing. And I think one of the things that's really important about the TDR is that we would save the farmland for future generations. It wouldn't be in buildings and structures and stormwater and all of those sorts of things. So those were the two points I wanted to hit on with regard to the points that you had made earlier. I want to say a couple of things about that line of demarcation you keep talking about, Route 81 with the east and west. I'm kind of struggling with this as a Shawnee supervisor. I'm wearing at least two hats. One is Shawnee specific. I'm on the eastern part of the county. The other one is Frederick County as a whole obviously I want to do Well as I can do for both of those constituencies certainly want to See what we can do to conserve Farmland out in the western part. The first question you asked is what do we want to conserve? I also want to conserve some open spaces in Shawnee as well And I would say that for the for the people that are in dense Residential areas in Redbud and Shawnee particularly but also Stonewall and Opec and you know, they might be working in Winchester They might be working in their district or they're likely working to the east. They're probably not working to the west And so my question is what are they getting out of filling up Shawnee and Redbud and Opec and and Stonewall with TDR receiving areas When when they're Oh, Open spaces that they have in their neighborhood that they want to keep open or is filling up with residential so Residential so that's the first thing I'd say is We want to conserve some of our open spaces as well in those areas for our residents I agree and they're they're densely packed now as it is I do get the I do get the you know the The thought process behind being efficient in what we're doing and having things in the UDA and having this was a Close by the city limits and that type of thing but I'd answer the question I want to conserve open spaces is Shawnee as well. I want to I want to help conserve farms in the western part of Frederick County That's another hat that I'm wearing wearing but I want to conserve that That that land in Shawnee. The other thing I would say is what do we want to do from a business standpoint? I think our school board recently last Thursday maybe? I don't know. I don't know, the other thing is that we had an agreement with the City Council and we have a lot of work with the City Council and we're trying to get that going and we're trying to get all the work done. I think the other thing I would say is what do we want to do from a business standpoint I think our school board recently last Thursday maybe? with the general assembly delegation and what they talked about a lot was meeting revenues in the future for their 21 i think i think they have 21 school buildings all told they probably have 25 or more buildings and that inventory is is aging and there's a couple of newer buildings but there's several buildings that are 30 40 50 years old and with 21 buildings aging we need we need revenues we're going to need revenues in the next several years and we don't just keep going back to the well and raising taxes every year to pay for not only new buildings but maintaining our buildings so those are a couple things that i would say from a shawnee perspective thank you mr pearson i was just going to add some context for how i think we ended up here because it was a earlier this year john and i or maybe even last year we're talking about the conservation easement authority and we had another meeting coming up and we were saying i hope this isn't like it's been for the past five years where the sole purpose of the meeting is appointing officers and then we don't meet again for another year and we also talked to diane about that she felt really emboldened to try to figure out where the cea could head in a positive direction and there was great conversations in the ensuing cea meetings about i don't know how long it's existed but there's been a long time since there's been measurable progress or an easement acquired that the ca has been involved with and at the end of those conversations about where they wanted to be i said we need to talk to the board and we need to sit down with the board and understand better their perspective about what they want us to do and how they might be able to help us do that so as a beginning to that i think this meeting has been great but i hope that nobody's viewing this is the last time that you see any of these folks again and if you do have any encouragement for them as it relates to what they're doing and how they're going to do it and i think that's something that we'll talk about in the next few years. i hope that's something that you can offer them as well that it is a priority of the board and of frederick county because they're interested in furthering it is that fair diane? yeah totally because i'm going to say it's like i want all six of you hopefully seven down the road to think about what the answer is to what do you want frederick county to look like as specifically as you can because i'm going to try to contact each one of you and talk about this because i think i think unless you give us some other direction what's going to occur is the cea is going to begin working on figuring out soil water and air conservation how can we how can we do this who are the partners out there that are already working what are the programs what kind of metrics can we come up with to come up with a general plan of course we will come back to you with that but that's what we're going to start working on and those will be our focuses and then you know the battlefields and the agritourism that's all out there too but i think right now unless i'm wrong that the focus is soil water and air and then you know so think about it because i will be in touch as we begin to move the cea tries to move forward in figuring out exactly how would be better to take the program which is already in place and some of these tools that we have how can we how can we leverage it a little bit more and the pdr thing is another thing i mean i suppose that there'll be conversation among you all whether you're going to further that one or not but you know there are many conversations there are many and i applaud the fact that you're going to have a strategic plan for frederick county yay please please mr marker i see you over there yes um i am the liaison from the planning commission to this committee um i would just like to comment that what diane is asking for is something that the planning commission should be asking for also to have a better vision of where we're going what we want so that we can do a better job on the comprehensive plan i think the two that one request is tied to both of us it's all about communication and working and all these entities we've talked about today because there's several different government agencies here that are supporting in various ways we just got to make sure we are talking and communicating with each other and we're going to be able to do that and we're going to be able to do that and we're going to be able to do that and we're going to be able to do that and we're going to say you know not saying like unless we don't have 마망이 um that sort of thing, these resources will be at this meeting and educating our public. Because sometimes all it takes is somebody to attend one of these meetings and they say, this is what happened to me. I went to one of these meetings, we were looking at a CREP buffer on our streams on our farm and Potomac Conservancy was explaining the CREP with the people who explained the CREP. My husband was very in tune with wanting to put fences along our streams to get our cattle out of the streams for erosion. When I heard about the conservation easement, I said, I know that the stream buffers are important but this is why we're here because this was an opportunity that allowed a piece of a century farm to be built. Thank you. So I think letting people know what opportunities are out there is very important work of what the CEA is doing. But all of this other feedback is really important, too. Yeah. And it's also important, I think, to realize that it's not, the effort is not just with the landowners. If we can reach the general public to get them to understand and value conservation, it's like we talked about, there's volunteerism, there's, you know, kicking a few bucks in, you know. It's just like we're seeing people come in. It's like getting involved, being on one of these committees. You know, it's more than, we need to reach more than just the landowners. We need to build the culture. It's educating the public. Yes, exactly. It's just having an appreciation. You don't have to own a farm to appreciate a farm. And so many of the people that are moving here from the east, they're here because they want that rural thing, but they don't understand. You know, and so, yeah, there's just lots of education. Anybody else have anything? Look. Bob, you asked a question. You really haven't said much. Give it a lot of salt. Well, give it some thought because I'm going to be talking to each one of you. All of you, thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it. We do. We really thank you. And we're not, you know, honestly, we're just, Diane, we talked about this last night. You know how much it is on my mind. And we just, we will be talking and working with you and moving forward and trying to come up with a great idea and a great plan. I mean, we understand. We've got to appreciate our valuable resources, what you just said, land, air, and water. So we will be working with you. Excellent. Excellent. Thank you very much. Thank you all for this work session. All right. We've got some time. It's 7 o'clock. We'll be right back.
