Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2025-08-06
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=290
========================================================================

you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next item on our agenda is adoption of the agenda. Do we have a motion for adoption? So moved. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. We have an agenda. Item four is meeting minute from May 21, 2025. Any corrections or additions to that? I'll accept a motion for approval. So moved. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, signify. Aye. Opposed? Any opposed, likewise. May 21, meeting minutes are approved. June 4, meeting minutes. Any corrections or additions to those meeting minutes? None. Motion for approval, please. So moved. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, likewise. Those meeting minutes are approved. July 2, 2021. Any discussion? All those in favor, signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, likewise. Those meeting minutes are approved. July 2, 2021. Any discussion? Aye. Opposed, likewise. July 2, 2021. Any additions or corrections. Any additions or corrections? No. A second. So moved. Is there a motion for approval? So moved. And a second? Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. And those meeting minutes are approved. That takes us to item five, which is committee reports. Are there any committee reports? Frederick Water did not meet. Frederick Water did not meet in July. I have one. Ms. Gozell. The DRC met on July 24th, and we discussed a proposal to amend the zoning ordinance to clarify the transfer of development rights, also known as the TDR program. It would amend receiving property criteria, transfer process, and development approval procedures. Additionally, we looked at adopting traffic impact analysis updates to those standards to facilitate in using in consideration with the TDR program. That's it. And that will be coming to this body at a future meeting. Yes. Okay. Transportation. Transportation. Sorry. Transportation. The DRC met on July 28th, and the committee unanimously supported the three additions that are coming to us tonight for the capital improvement projects. It's to give us a more competitive stance with VDOT. The county received bids for the application assistance and the Gainesboro Road design, and Timmons won both group, both of the bids. On July 18th, Renaissance Drive was open to traffic. And the work is continuing to, for the closure of the Springdale Road rail crossing. The barricades are up right now, but they still have to put in the circles and things. As far as SPART scale goes, we had very good results this time. Gateway exit 313 was approved, and so was Hayfield Interchange. And so we need to thank our CTB members for continuing to promote. They're trying to get a third lane on 81 to help with our truck traffic and things. VDOT held a public hearing for the Charlestown Road and Route 11 roundabout. About 25 people came. And so VDOT, I was not there, but I heard did a great job presenting. They prefer the roundabout over the signals to try to minimize bodily harm and fatalities. And so we're going to be working with the city to try to eliminate the right angle crashes that they're seeing. The project will be ready to put to bid in 2027 if the Board of Supervisors want to go forward. And last but not least, the Sheriff's Department gave a report, and they said our crash statistics for July were much better than in June. They have gotten a couple complaints about speed on Middle Road in front of, or to View Elementary, so they're going to start tracking the speed in front of that school. And they said that they're having some trouble as far as safety with how motorcycles are driving on the road. So they're upping looking at them. And that's all. Okay. Thank you, Ms. Brannon. Oh, conservation easements. Yes, sir. Mr. Markert. Thank you. Yeah, Conservation Easement Authority met on June 26th, and they reelected the same slate of officers. Dorothy Kearns is still the chairman. They made no changes to the bylaws. They talked about needing funds for PDRs, Purchase of Development Rights. And TDRs, which is a transfer of development rights. They feel that's better than nothing, but they're still trying to find ways to get funding to get more land, to extinguish the development rights on land to preserve it better and more completely. They're watching Clark County's plan. They're making progress. They have some tenants. They're making progress. They have some tenants. They've been doing it for years now. And what we're seeing is these What they're they're looking at is, and that's the same story. You look at Texas's farm, one acre lots out of the 700 acre farm. They're trying to do a smaller, piece by piece, transfer, extinguishing the rights. Creating a conservation easement and they decided they want to meet more than once a year. And so they're kind of they're tentatively planning on. Meeting in September, having a work session. With the planning commission and the board of supervisors in October. And have an event in November for education and outreach. So that's where they stand. Okay, thank you. The others, the historic resource advisory board met on July the 18th. The one project we took a look at was the Middletown Business Park comprehensive plan policy amendment. That was recommended to include. A cultural resource survey for any artifacts that might be on the property to try to discover. And record the history. Before the properties develop. And that will be coming to the CPPC at some point in the next in the foreseeable future. I'm assuming is that correct Mr. Pearson? Yes, sir. That's right. It was actually scheduled recently, but the applicant requested to hold off on going to the CPPC. While they consider some factors about the property itself. If they do come back, it's likely to be at the September CPPC meeting. Okay, that'll give us something to look forward to. And we always save the best for last. Mr. Liero. Good evening, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. As part of the Board of Supervisors meeting on the 9th, there was a consent agenda adopted 7-0. That in part authorized for the county administrator to send a letter in support of the Shenandoah Valley Battlefields Foundation's efforts to purchase and preserve the glass track in Frederick County at the Kernstown Battlefield. Also, Conservation Easement Authority. Leslie Spencer, who I think is in the room. Yes, sir. He's in the room tonight, maybe. Was appointed 7-0. So, congratulations to Leslie. Leslie. Shawnee, Senateary District Advisory Committee. Gary Bailey was reappointed to another two-year term. And Board of Building Code Appeals. Whitney Wagner was reappointed to another five-year term. All those votes were 7-0. Deputy Building Official Code Administrator position was approved 7-0. Information discussion on Ordinance Amendment for Transfer Development Rights and Traffic Impact Analysis Standards Update. That was sent forward to a public hearing. That vote was 7-0 as well. That's all I have, Mr. Chair. Thank you very much, sir. And I believe that completes our committee reports. Unless I missed somebody. Nope. Okay. Next item is Item 6, Citizen Comments. This is a time for citizens to address the Planning Commission on any item that is not on our agenda for approval. If you have something that you'd like to talk to the Planning Commission about, this would be a time to do so. There are two items, three items on our agenda this evening for Planning Commission public hearings. So, again, this is for items that are not on our agenda. Would anybody like to address the Planning Commission? Anybody at all? Okay. Seeing none, we'll close the citizen comment period. That leads us to Item 6, Public Hearings. Thank you. That leads us into our public hearings. And Ms. Feltner is going to lead us off this evening. Good evening. This is Rezoning 04-25, Laurel Ridge Community College Foundation, MDP Facility Solution. So, I'll address the Planning Commission on any item that is not on our agenda for approval. Number 1, the Planning Commission's application to rezone 19.8 acres from the R.A. to higher education. The property is located at 131 Garland Snap Drive in the Back Creek Magisterial District. The property is located adjacent to the existing Laurel Ridge Community College just north of the town of Middletown. The property is outlined in the Planning Commission's application. in purple and is located on Valley Pike just west of Middletown Elementary School and Interstate 81. The Middletown-Lord Fairfax Area Plan provides guidance for this area. The plan identifies these properties as institutional and the proposed rezoning implements this plan, enhancing the existing educational institutional use that serves Frederick County and the broader region. This is the generalized development plan that was submitted with the proffer statement. The existing student union building is currently located on the property. The new facility and the training components, including the proposed substation to be used as training, will be positioned behind the student union building. The proffer statement provides that the property be developed with a college, a university, and professional schools in conformity with the current state and local standards. The proposed rezoning is proposed to be in general conformance with the future plan. A right-of-way dedication for expansion of Route 11 is proposed and the development shall be in general conformance with the GDP. In summary, the proposed rezoning implements the Middletown-Lord Fairfax Area Plan. Proffers provide monetary contributions to offset the fire and rescue services and dedication to right-of-way for future improvements to Route 11-Valley Pike is proposed. The concerns the Board of Trustees and the Board of Trustees of the City of Middletown-Lord Fairfax Area Plan have raised are as follows. The Board of Supervisors policy requires development in the SWASA, the Sewer and Water Service Authority, to be served by the public utilities. Frederick Water does not have the utilities available. Therefore, the facility and the proposed expansion will continually be served by the City of Winchester for water and the Town of Middletown for sewer. This item is presented for public hearing. Staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's all I have. The applicant is and its representatives, Mr. Ramos and Mr. Patterson, are also in attendance to answer any questions. Thank you, Ms. Feltner. Does anybody have any questions for Ms. Feltner? To my left? To my right? Okay. Mr. Ramos, Mr. Patterson, do either of you wish to speak? There they are. Thank you. I think we're here for questions, unless you want us to talk. Okay. Any questions for the applicants? To my right? To my left? Will any of these facilities be energized? The buildings will be energized, but the poles and the utility lines and the future planned substation will not be energized in an electrical grid kind of way. No. Okay. Very good. Well, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. This is a public hearing. I'll open the public hearing to anybody who would like to speak to this resuming request. I ask you to come forward, state your magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. Good evening. Good evening. I'm Pamela Henson. This is my husband, somewhere. Kelvin Henson. Kelvin Henson. We are a Back Creek district. So our property is adjacent to the Lord of Fairfax. Our property is 91-A, 99A. We're a residential property. I have no issue with them wanting to resume to HR. The only issue that I have, as from what I saw on the schematics, is we have an easement on their property, and our well is on their property. And that is what supplies our house with water. From where it looks like what was on the screen is where they want to use the water. So I just want to make sure that you build a road, maybe a possible building, which is like really near the trees where my well is. I just, well, not my well, but the well that we have a right to. I just want to make sure that it is not going to be damaged. And we have paperwork. We do have, you know, the paperwork where it was conveyed to us when we bought the house. So I just want to make sure that they were very much aware of exactly where that well is on that property. I just want to make sure, you know. It wouldn't. I just want to make sure that they know that it's done to it. Okay. We're good. Okay. And what would the rezoning do to our property? What will this cost for our property? Because I know they were talking about putting in a four lane road. It appears that it's going to start like maybe at one end of our property, and then it just goes back down the two lane. I just need to make sure that they're very much aware of where that well is situated. Okay. This is an opportunity for you to address the Planning Commission. And what I'm going to ask you to do is to talk with the lady who's over your left shoulder there in the maroon and share that information with her. Okay. And she can answer your questions for you. That would be great. All right. Thank you so much for your time. Okay. Would anybody else like to speak to this rezoning? Anybody at all? Seeing none, I will close the public hearing. Mr. Patterson or Mr. Ramos, do you care to address the comments that were made? Do you care to respond? Yes, sir. I appreciate the comment. I had personally researched the easements on the property there and had identified that easement. The easement is serving water to that house, as they stated, but the source of the water is not near our development. It's further north from the development. So the development's not in conflict. But I'm not sure. I believe the Educational Foundation wants to, if they ever wanted to develop the property, fully intend to sort out the water service to the house and not just cut them off. So I don't. Okay. But it's not in conflict with this, what this contemplates. Okay. Very good. Thank you, sir. Yeah. Ms. Feltner, do you have anything you'd like to add at this point? Okay. Thank you very much. Planning Commissioners, this is our opportunity to discuss this. Thank you. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss this request to rezone this property. Any comments to my right? None. To my left? No comments? This is. I have a comment. Yeah. Ms. Brannon. Yes. That land was granted to them. We knew it was going to be institutional. It seems reasonable. Yes. Okay. This is Back Creek. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to move that we rezone, or approve the rezoning of 0425, Lowe's Park. Okay. That's the motion. Is there a motion? So moved. Seconded by Mr. Brannon. So moved. Seconded by Mr. Brannon. Seconded by Mr. Brannon. Okay. So moved. Thank you. Okay. So now we're moving on to the next item. We're moving on to the next item. Okay. This is the 0425 Laurel Ridge Community College Foundation from RA Zoning to HE, Higher Education Zoning District with proffers for the Technical Trade Facility. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. Second. And we have a second. Is there any further discussion? To my left? To my right? Okay. The motion is for recommendation of approval. So moved. Seconded by Mr. Brannon. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Seconded by Mr. Brannon. Seconded by Mr. Brannon. Yes. Thank you. Seconded by Mr. Brannon. Yes. Thank you. Okay. So now we're moving on to the next item, to rezone from RA to HE. And we'll begin the voting with Ms. Brannon. Ms. Brannon. Brannon. Yes. Brumbach. Yes. McKay. Yes. Botthorff. Yes. Sneden. Yes. Markert. Yes. Thomas. Yes. Kozo. Yes. Kern-Jus. DeHaven. Yes. Thank you very much. Okay, next item 7B, continue conditional use permit number 05-25 for Arcola Towers. Ms. Pellequin, good evening. Good evening. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This conditional use permit application is for a telecommunications facility on a 14.25-acre property zoned RP residential performance in the Shawnee Magisterial District. This countywide map shows the approximate location of the tower in the red box. It's located north of Tasker Road, west of 522 Front Royal Pike, and east of Interstate 81. Zooming in here, the property is outlined in purple. It's located between two subdivisions, Wakeland Manor and Lakewood Manor, and Frederick Water is the... property owner, and they have given their permission for the tower to be located on this property. The application proposes a 150-foot-tall monopole wireless telecommunications tower made of gray galvanized steel. It would be designed for T-Mobile and at least three other service providers. The tower will be within a fenced compound of 8-foot-tall chain-link fence and will be set back at least 150 feet from all properties. The site will be located north of the existing two existing ponds. Here's the proposed... A zoom-in of the proposed site plan. The pink lines represent the 15-foot access easement that our COLA towers would have to the site. The site is located northeast of those two existing ponds. And for orientation, north is at the top of the screen. The public facilities chapter of the comprehensive plan includes a broadband and telecommunications site. The site is located in the center of the section with a goal to promote the development of a high-quality wireless telecommunications network throughout the county to serve its residents while protecting the county's visual landscape, historic resources, and natural resources. And the proposed tower generally helps the county achieve this goal. Should the Planning Commission find this to be appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions. All review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. The tower shall not exceed 150 feet in height. The tower shall be available for co-locating personal wireless service providers. A minor site plan meeting all requirements of the zoning ordinance, including additional regulations for commercial telecommunications facilities, shall be approved prior to establishment of the use. In the event the telecommunications tower is not constructed within 12 months of approval of the CUP, the CUP will be deemed invalid. And finally, any expansion or change of the use shall require a new conditional use permit. This item is presented for public hearing this evening. Staff are seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors, who will hear the item on September 10th. That concludes my presentation. I'm available to answer any questions, and I would also like to introduce Thomas with Arcola Towers. And he has a question. He has a presentation he would like to share as well. Thank you, Ms. Pelikman. Are there any questions for Ms. Pelikman? All right. My left. Mr. Markert. Hi, everyone. Is the location of this tower in compliance with the comprehensive plan? The comprehensive plan doesn't necessarily specify targeted locations for towers. They just have the goal of, enhancing the telecommunications network in the county. Any other questions? Thank you very much. Mr. Thomas. Good evening. Good evening, sir. My name is Thomas DeStanislo. I am here on behalf of Arcola Towers. As the Virginia Council. And I'm actually not going to be presenting. I want to introduce Mr. Jonathan Yates, who's going to be giving tonight's presentation. Thank you. Thank you, Thomas. Mr. Chairman, you gave me some good advice at the start of the meeting. If I don't follow it, you throw something at me, okay? First and foremost, good to be with you all again. Jonathan Yates, Arcola Towers. Thank you, Kayla. She keeps me out of trouble. You would think after doing this a couple times, I'd get it right. But she has to call me and say, you idiot. What we're proposing tonight, we hope will be a little more palatable to this board. We know we got some folks in the room. So we know we got a little work to do. This is a tower that has been designed for T-Mobile. AT&T committed last week to go on it. And also two additional broadband carriers. This one has been in the works for about five years. This one has only a few slides. You don't see the可以 me en like this What this tower represents is an incredible investment in Frederick County, not only by T-Mobile, AT&T, and we think the other two carriers will come along eventually, and they've been waiting a long time on it. This guy, Ryan Foltz, he's my boss. He's a tough boss, but he's put a lot of time into this thing. He's worked hard. Initially, we inherited a site from T-Mobile. The perfect location, they thought, is where Midgar Storage is down there across from the filling station down there at Wyrant Tasker. They thought that would be the perfect location. We played with it a bit, discussed it with county leaders, and then we got a recommendation, which we thought was pretty good. They said, heck, you got a 14th. We got a 14.25-acre piece of property in the search ring that's owned by Frederick Water. The beauty of that is we're putting a utility with a utility. Frederick Water has had this property since 1985 when it was conveyed to them by Lakeside. Presently on the property, Frederick Water has two old ponds. Don't go too close to them in the summer. Not the most of a difference. What this property is, it's a little bit of a different kind of property. This property gave us 14.25 acres. It will work for T-Mobile. It will work for AT&T. But we were able to enjoy the size of the property, joining forces with another utility, putting utility with utility. And it gave us pretty good setbacks. It also gave us some pretty good forested buffers. When I do a tower, the toughest thing is I meet nice folks. Who live next door. And they're thinking, if I do this tower, it's going to be the end of the world. But you know what? It isn't the end of the world. What I'm doing is bringing infrastructure. I loaded Kayla up with a ton of stuff this time. We have a presentation, and if we need to, after these folks talk, Mr. Foltz will work through the photo sims. We also had a very good study done on property values around towers. Frederick County. And you can say, oh God, you know, real estate appraisers just do what you tell them to. But no. They have to put their name on the line. They have to put their integrity on the line. And if you look at that study, found a couple interesting things. Looked at a bunch of towers around the county. And there are towers all over the county. There are towers next to neighborhoods. He found that, oddly enough, in most cases, property values within a mile of a tower exceeded the county value. He also found, this is Mr. Harrell of REACS, he also found new home communities no effect from a tower. And to me, the amazing thing, he studied three towers that are present in Frederick County. In each of those cases, there's a house within 500 feet of the tower. He found that the value sales there were either even, ahead, or on par with the county. So there's a lot of, the biggest problem with towers is the fear of the unknown. It's the fear of the unknown. These are nice folks. They're going to present some nice stuff to you. But the fact of the matter is, I think we did our job here. You have an ordinance. All we can do is follow the ordinance. We've tried hard. We did, we went, got away from the Midgard site. We went to the Frederick Water site on advice. It's 14.25 acres. Frederick Water has no plans to develop it into homes. So you have that tree cover that'll be there. You have that protection all the way around. The tower itself is a monopole. We talked about this before. What is a monopole? It's just a pylon. I just want to define it. The 막pary's not there. If you don't have a search device, but you haven't parked your car in theop hand! That's nuts. I just wanted to push this into context because, it won't be nice when I do that to anyone. But, I thought I experienced some doubt. The only company you can trust, and to be honest, I'm not wanna say my Mud Financial Chief, no one really diesel ride shitahlen numbers and stuff, we go a little bit different but, we first come to think in terms of, transit, maybe we're seeing transit. Now, I'm not gonna take crazy things off here, guys. But, do you ever think we're gonna find any fresh으로 Like we always do. up? We think we're pretty aggressive, now, folks wouldn't see it. What will they see? They'll see a pole with some equipment. I don't think it will ruin anyone's life. Now, to get here tonight, other than me driving Kayla crazy, the tower had to be reviewed by Virginia SHPO, State Historic Preservation Office. On November 8th, 2024, they found it would have no effect. Interestingly enough, the tower was also reviewed by 12 separate Native American organizations, what we call THPO, or Tribal Historic Preservation Office. They all reviewed and cleared it. A lot has come into tonight. Another site, five years of work. What I can never do is come back and say, I'm going to do it again. I'm going to do it again. I'm going to do it again. I'm going to do it again. I'm going to do it again. I'm going to do it again. I'm going to do it again. I'm going to do it again. Ç We're in the final phases here. It's called robust in-building coverage. Folks use their phones for everything. You know, as you can see, and you told me brief, I promise I'm getting close. I promise. I'm getting close, Chair. I'm not young. I started working on towers in 1995. Back then, the cell phone was a rich man's toy, a businessman's toy. Who does not have a phone today? I have two. Biggest mistake I made a few years ago was giving my son all that equipment. I don't know what he's always looking at, but it is an extension. It's like he put Gorilla Glue on the phone to his hand. But the serious thing, what do the phones do? People talk on them. They access the internet. They get health information. They have their wallets in there. You have in the county alert Fred Koba. It's very important. You got bad weather coming. You got a situation coming. You got an amber alert. You get an alert on your phone. We are infrastructure. We're called 21st century infrastructure. But we're part of everyone's life. Everyone has a phone. They do different things with it. T-Mobile and AT&T would not make this incredible, incredible investment in Frederick County if they didn't need to. They want to stay ahead of the game in their network. They don't want folks calling saying, I can't use it inside my bedroom. I'm having a capacity issue. You got too many people. They're trying to stay ahead of the game. They want to deliver for the county what the comp plan calls for. Robust and the best wireless broadband. We want it to be the best in the state of Virginia. To do that, we have to put in towers. We have to put in the infrastructure. But never will I be able to come to you and say, well, the room's empty behind me because there ain't no one living five miles away. I don't need a tower there. I need a tower where people live, work, and travel. And to do that, I have to put it next to neighbors. There's always going to be neighbors. But it's on me to do it in the right way. To find a 14.25 acre property with tree cover. To go with the utility. To ask for only 150 feet. To have approval from Virginia SHIPO. To have the clearance from 12 Native American tribes. We worked hard. And these are nice folks behind me. And they're going to have all kinds of reasons why we don't need it. We don't need it. I can tell you this. You do need it. It's the future. And I can assure you, the carriers would not be making this investment in the county if it wasn't needed. I promise to be brief. I fibbed. I apologize, Mr. Chair. We're here for any and all questions that may come up. Thank you. Mr. Fulce, were you going to speak? That's all? Okay. Are there any questions for the applicant? To my right. Sir? Yeah, I got a couple of quick questions for you. Thank you. Yes, sir. First question. From the base of the tower to the nearest home, what's the, not the property line, but the actual home? Do you have that measurement? I do, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. The home on Brandy Line is 461 feet. Okay. Gotcha. Yes, sir. Thank you. Second question. Is there electric already running back to there, or are you going to have to, is some sort of power lines going to have to be put in, or how's electric going to get there? You have to listen to the boss on that. He's done all that homework. So they have electric back there, but we've got to put a power application in. But the Water Authority already told us any electric we bring in has to be underground. So most likely they'll come off lakeside underground, or if they have existing transformers. So we'll board our trench. We'll put it underground. Got it. Yep. Thank you. Did you say underground? Any other questions to my right? To my left, any questions? Mrs. Brannon? I drove around the area all through the neighborhoods, and they had two bars every place. So I read in your notes that AT&T and Verizon have anecdotal poor in-building coverage in the area. So one, I'd like to hear from the citizens if they do have poor coverage, because it looked good to me. But granted, I was in a car, not in a house. And I have Verizon. So have you talked to them about co-locating wherever they are? I think Ryan can ask to Verizon. I guess we'll hear. We asked Verizon, and I'm a Verizon customer. And they said, There is a need in the area. They're on all the towers that T-Mobile is on surrounding the area. But they wouldn't sign a letter of intent because they didn't have no plans to call there now. But AT&T called us up and said, Hey, we saw the zoning is coming forward. If you guys have zoning approval, we do want to come on the towers. There is a need there because we're getting complaints. And that's why also T-Mobile did the same thing. Hey, we're getting complaints. We need coverage here. So they come to us and tell us, Hey, this is the area. We need coverage. Did you provide the county with redacted complaints? Because. T-Mobile seemed good to me. We don't get that. We do have some RF plots from T-Mobile that show where their existing sites are and where the good coverage and the bad coverage is. It's in. Start punching. Start punching. Right here. Right. There we go. There we go. So this is. Sorry. So this is the existing T-Mobile coverage we got from T-Mobile RF engineers. So as you can see, these, the little. I guess triangles almost surrounding all their existing sites. Right here is 522. Oh, I'm sorry. Kayla. Oh, no, I figured I figured it out. Sorry. So this is 522. The Walmarts right here. This is the short tower here. And then we're back in here. So this is the coverage gap that they're saying they are need to try to fill. And so with our site. You know, a lot of the cross point. But then. This is. This is with our site now. So they can't give us complaints or anything, but they they they come to us. Say, here's the RF maps. This is the hole we need to fill. And that's why we start searching the areas. So I can only go off the engineers that tell me so. Okay. I guess this is not my field. So if what's considered good coverage, if two bars, I mean, that's in the middle. Like, are you looking for must be four bars? What? I mean, I would think it'd be five. I mean, I think it's four. Five hours of 5G status. But again, it depends where, you know, the trees are leaves, right? That actually reduces your service if you're in home. But the RF engineer tells me, hey, we don't have good in-home service here, which would I would think have full bars in home. Then again, I'm not a rafting engineer either. I just I talked to him all the time. So this is all I can get. This is from T-Mobile directly. So sorry. I wish I wish I. I'll listen to the neighbors if they have coverage. Absolutely. Any other questions to my left? Will there be any noise associated with this? Is there a generator or anything you'll be running? There will be. There will be a generator with T-Mobile, but it's only running during an emergency and extended outage. They usually have battery backup about six to eight hours. So if there's extended outage, we want to make sure service is still there. So that will be running. And they usually maintenance it, let it run for about 30 minutes once every couple of months. And how many providers can co-locate on this tower? Four. Four. Four. And currently with T-Mobile, now we have 18T on board as well. OK. And that's a structural limitation? Yeah. The facility has been designed for the four. Also, we have the 50 by 50 compound on the base, which is also designed for the four in the market. And again, as to the generator, if that generator is running, that means there's no power in the surrounding area. So folks dependent on us during weather emergency, we got to keep up. Mr. Markert. Mr. Markert. Yes. What is the collapse radius of your tower? It is the collapse radius was, first of all, Virginia professional engineer Robert E. Beacom. He designed the facility to the NCTIA 222H wind standard for this part of the county at 111 miles per hour wind. That's the NC standard. And then he designed in 150 foot fall radius, which is fully contained on the Frederick Water Project. And that's the property. And he is certified to that. Mr. Thomas. Yes. I live in that area. And I have AT&T. And yes, I do have poor service sometimes. But it depends how many people are on the line. How many status quo where we are right now, if we keep building houses down there, how much will that degrade the house or degrade the service? And when you add in internet service and everything else, it's not going to be a problem. And we're going to have to do a lot of work to do that. And we're going to have to do a lot of work to do that. And we're going to have to do a lot of work to do that. And we're going to have to do a lot of work to do that. Driving around in a car is great looking at service. But that's at a specific time. The best time to look at it would probably be 6 to 7 o'clock at night when everybody's on their computer and on their phones and their internet's running wild. So when we start building, and there's a lot of area down there to build more housing, how much service are we going to lose with additional houses being built? That's why they're trying to be preemptive. You're exactly right, Mr. Thomas. It's what we call a capacity issue where folks are not just using it for voice, they're accessing data. They're trying to access at the same time. More folks traveling into the area, more folks residing in the area. It gets worse. So what the carriers like to do, because they want to keep their customers and they have a duty to their customers, they make the investment ahead of time to be preemptive so the capacity will be there and to solve. It might not be an immediate problem, but they're planning. For the future, they look at projected growth, and that's what they're trying to do. They're trying to stay ahead of the curve with the service they're delivering to the citizens of the county. Now, looking at a two-bar service at this point, I consider that probably marginal at best. It's not good service. It's marginal at best. Particularly if you're in the car with two bars. So when you start looking at building additional houses, how many additional? And I know this is probably an impossible question. But if we're baseline now at two-bar service and we build 100 additional houses and half of them are AT&T and half are Verizon carriers, how much is that? What are we going to have, one-bar service or no bars? And a lot of it depends on the weather. I mean, I go from four-bar service to zero service depending on the weather, time of day, and everything else. So, I mean, I have a voice over IP. That I use when my cell phone service is poor. So what would that, how much would that degrade the service? It's really hard to tell for specifics, but it would degrade a lot. You'll probably still show two bars because there's still that network there. But you're going to be dropping a lot more calls. Everything will be slower. A lot of times when, like, there's a capacity issue, you usually just drop calls. Or stuff just won't load even though it shows one or two bars on your phone. Like a great example in D.C., you know, there's a cell site for every care on every block. Just to try to be able to get it to work. Just to be able to handle. And when inaugurations happen, when I used to work on this for AT&T, we had to bring cell on wheels just to be able to handle just the people coming on, even if it was a small event. So it really, I can't give you specifics of how much, but it would really, really degrade. If you put another hundred homes there. And it's not just the cell phones because all of these new homes are going to have security alarms. Those security alarms depend on cell service and cell towers. And they don't show you how many bars you have. So we're looking at a point now where we probably have marginal service in a lot of those areas that can degrade pretty quickly because there's a lot of additional homes down there to be built. There's a lot of areas already rezoned that can be built. Those homes won't just have cell service. They'll have Internet. They'll have house alarms, security alarms that will be connected. So, I mean, it's not something that's very easy to say yes or no one way or the other. And that's it with the home alarms. They're having to monitor them on their phone. You have all that communication between the home alarm company, all of that wireless. It's what we call a capacity issue. You might technically have coverage, but if they can't handle your call because of capacity, you get a call fail or you get a degraded call. So, again, the carriers are trying to stay ahead of the game. They're trying to be preemptive. And, again, this is an investment in the county. It's an investment in the county. It's an investment in the county. It's an investment in the county. It's an investment in the county. It's all it is. Unfortunately, I wish we'd have built all the cell towers before we built houses. How long will it take from the time you receive your approval to the time the tower's online? It takes you about 45, 60 days total construction. About 60 days. Yeah, most of that, Ryan has to put the foundation in. That has to set. The tower itself is actually stacked in a day. And then the carriers spend a month or so integrating their equipment. They bring the equipment in. They have to start integrating with the rest of their network, with their technicians. The beauty of that, after that is done, on average, the carriers will maybe only visit the site eight to ten times a year. It's all operated remotely, controlled remotely. So we will not be creating additional traffic into the area. I had some time this afternoon and reviewed what you did on property values. Yeah. Thank you for including that. There. People here who have very real concerns about their property and the impact that this tower will have on the value of their home that they live in. This is the biggest investment that most people ever make is the purchase of a home. What would you say to these people to allay their concerns? I would say look at that study. I think Mr. Harrell did his homework. He did it well. And it coincided with what we've seen around the country. There's a lot of scary stuff on the Internet of all these drop in values. But a lot of anecdotal we get, particularly for the younger buyer. The younger buyer is coming into a home. And from what I understand from the real estate agents I've talked to, they walk through the home with the phone out. They go to every room. They go to the bathroom and make sure it works. We were working on one in Shenandoah County about a year ago. And one of their supervisors actually did his own review. He called, what was it, four? Three. Three, excuse me. Three real estate agents throughout the county and asked what the importance was. And they all came back. The buyer is looking to have effective wireless coverage. And people don't want to hear it's coming when they're buying a home. They want to know it's there when they buy the home. Thank you very much, gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Okay, this is a public hearing. We'll open the public hearing to anybody who would like to speak to this rezoning. I ask that you come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Good evening, sir. Good evening. Thank you, Chairman, members. For me, that was a pretty weak argument. Can you give us your name? My name is Chris Hubert. I'm Shawnee District. Okay. And so, one, before I have my few points, they paid for that study. That's what industry does. They pay for studies that support what they do. We all know that. Two, we started off a talk here about necessity, like an absolute immediate necessity. And that then wavered to a preemptive strike. We're going to have a perceived future need. And somehow two bars got into the conversation as though that's all our community is serviced with. I had a few points I wanted to make. The first one was... The second one was, our cell coverage in that area is fine. We live in Wakeland Manor, right near where this thing's going to go up. I've been with AT&T for over 20 years. Never had issues with cell service or data anywhere in Stephen City. So there is no pressing need for this tower near us now. Two, I have a question. Is a 150-foot tall cell tower sightly or unsightly? They're ugly. Everybody knows it. It's an eyesore. Nobody on this panel would want to look out their back window and say, Oh, it's a tower. It's a tower. It's a tower. And see one of these looming overhead. That's without question. What happens to a property when it has a gorgeous view, like a drop-dead beautiful view? It's more desirable and therefore more valuable. What happens when a property has an unsightly view? Common sense would tell you it's now got less value. A 2005 study by Bond and Wang showed this. It found property values were diminished by up to 21% with proximity.・・・‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿‿—‿‿‿‿‿ Ð—� Thank you, sir. Would anybody else like to speak to this? Yes, sir. Paul Rosito. I live on Fairlawn Court. This tower is going to be right in my backyard. Six months out of the year, without leaves, I'm going to be staring at this thing, along with the people in Wakeland Manor. They'll also see it. I've got just a few questions. Property values, I guarantee you, this is not going to help my home any. I just want to know why they keep going back to the same spot that they tried two years ago to build this tower, and it was rejected by all the other people around it. Two, he's talking about noise. There is a generator at the base of this tower. I've built antennas for the government. Generators do need to be run. They get tests run. I don't know how often, maybe once a week, maybe once a month. I will hear it. It's in my backyard. I'm happy to hear that there's no light on it, because that would be blinking in my backyard. Has anybody done a transmit RF radiation pattern on this tower? What proximity to my home? I'm about 500 feet from this tower. That's transmit power. My other question would be, are there any other antennas that could be put on this thing in the future? It may not be isolated now, but are we doing any microwave dish? Are we never a microwave dish? For firefighters. Okay. And just the cellular antennas, will they stack them? Will it increase? I mean, you're not going to just stop at what you're building now. Two years from now, three years from now, how many more antennas will be piled on that tower? Four carriers, and usually run about 12 antennas per hour. Okay. And we have an RR if you did, sorry, reviewed that. What is our guarantee, though, that there would be a limit as to what's going to be hanging on the tower? Mr. Riccardo, please address your comments to the planning committee. I'm sorry. I'm looking to him because I know he's got some answers for me. You're welcome to talk to him later. Yeah, okay. And the 14 acres that you keep talking about, you had a really good sales pitch on this. The 14 acres, unfortunately, it's at the very edge of the 14 acres, which is right on top of Fairlawn Court and very close to the next subdivision over. That's about all I can ask. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Would anybody else like to speak to this? Yes, sir. Good evening. Good evening. Bill McKnight in Shawnee District. Can you bring the map back up and somebody specifically show where this site is? Because it was flashed up there for 30 seconds, and it's not real clear. It wasn't clear. I can't, but somebody with technical skills can. Okay. Brock. So you can also look over here. Sorry. All right. So it's that little dot right there. So it's past the people. Yeah. Is that like the little campsite sort of area in there, clearing? Where the guys, they have to go to the clearing. The circle's right here, and the clearing's right there, and that's where people can drive their airplanes. Yeah. And if you could. Thank you. Yeah. Would anybody else like to speak to this? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Please, please. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Come on up. State your name. Magisterial District? Yeah. John Tolali. I'm Shawnee District, and I live on Brandy Line Drive. I have just a couple of questions. Is the property, this piece, this lot, being purchased by Arcola, or are you leasing it to them? We are not. That's a Frederick Water property. I'm assuming you're leasing. Is that correct? Yes. Frederick Water. paying basically rent back to its income back to Frederick Water, correct? Yes, sir. Okay. So that's a benefit to them for unused property. Okay. Next is the tower itself. Did I hear that really the usage is for not for Verizon, not for AT&T, but solely for I forgot who the other T-Mobile. It's really for T-Mobile. And AT&T designed for two other things. Initially T-Mobile and AT&T. T-Mobile and AT&T. Okay. I have Verizon and my wife actually has AT&T and we have no problems with cell phone coverage and my property would be right on the edge. There's a stream actually that runs right along that area. I'm sure you can make the tower look pretty. At the bottom. But there's no way you're hiding 150 feet. That I have an issue with because I don't want to look out my windows and see 150 foot tower. It's ugly. It will always look ugly and there's nothing you're going to do to hide it. And I'm concerned about noise. Humming and it's I bought. In the cul-de-sac right smack at the end of the street. So I back up to woods and that stream because it was pretty picturesque and quiet and that will destroy. The reason why I bought back there. Thank you, sir. Anybody else like to speak? Yes, sir. Please take your name and Magisterial District. Name is Bill Roble. Apologize for the voice. It's been giving me trouble lately. Shawnee District. And a couple of things that bother me about this is first of all, I live right at the edge where you put me at that antenna. I have fine service. I think you're positioning yourself for 6G, which is going to require many more. Antennas because it's shorter wave. So you'll be doing this a lot more often. And as far as the obstruction lights, we'll see how long it lasts without an obstruction light. Because there's a VFR corridor that the helicopters used to go from from Winchester Medical to the other hospital over at exit 40 on 66. They go right over the top of that and they go over. The top of that pretty low level. So. Also. It affects my quality of life because I sit out back in my house, my living room and my kitchen. And when I eat, I look out and I see trees. Trees have leaves. They're not pine trees over there. So what's going to happen is I'm going to have to look at that antenna. For at least six months of the year, maybe a little bit more because of the way the tree cycle goes. Now, like I said, I have tree. I have T-Mobile and I have good coverage. So and I'm 500 feet from that antenna. So and the biggest concern I have is the secrecy about this, because I just found out about this. A couple of days ago and last time. Believe it was Shantel and they contacted us ahead of time and they gave us a number we could leave our comments to. And there was nothing that I am aware of on this on this antenna. So I don't know who's trying to sneak something in under the radar, but. I'm not happy with this whole situation, as you can tell. But it may help all the people that live further out from that antenna, but it's not helping me out. Thank you. Does your property adjoin the. I'm at 119. You know where the dirt pile is. I'm right next to that dirt pile. So and. You know. Yeah, there's going to be noise. That's going to bother me, too, but. I'm not going to harp on that one. Miss Pellequin, if his property does not adjoin the subject property, would he have received a letter? No, only the properties that share a border with the subject property would have received a letter from us from the county. I walk straight out of my property right to that to that water, the two ponds. The land behind us is owned by Wickman Manor. The land behind us is owned by Wickman Manor. The land behind us is owned by Wickman Manor. So technically we don't share property. And that's why. And that's why. All right. Yep. But thank you, sir. Would anybody else like to speak to this? Yes, sir. Good evening. Good evening. Michael Pack, Shawnee District. Hopefully going to keep this short and sweet. I am a homeowner, homeowner of one of the in one of the neighborhoods within 2000 feet of the proposed cup. Oh, five dash two five. Matter of fact, the gentleman before me is the owner of the property. I'm not sure what he's doing. I'm not sure what he's doing. I'm not sure what he's doing. I'm not sure what he's doing. I'm not sure what he's doing. I'm not sure what he's doing. I'm not sure what he's doing. He's the homeowner of one of them in one of the neighborhoods within 2000 feet of the proposed cup. Oh, five dash two five. Matter of fact, the gentleman made mention of young homebuyers looking to buy homes in the area. I was one of those buyers four years ago this week. Actually, when we when my wife and I were looking to buy the house, we were not looking at our phones, checking to see what the service was. Anything but. We were looking at the beauty of the area and how gorgeous of a neighborhood it would be to raise our now two young daughters. The first commenter was right. Right. No one on this board want to look out their backyard and see this in their window when they're raising their two small daughters every day. During and post COVID, it is no secret that the county has been growing at a rapid rate. Housing supply has been catching up with demand. And so prices across the region has ballooned. And so while they suggest that the study has shown that prices have stayed flat, I would challenge that the the aggregate of all studies looking at the subject would show that housing prices tend to see a decrease as a result of that. And so I would encourage people to look at the proposed project. Most importantly, the surrounding neighborhoods have an absolute metric ton of children, curious children at that. Studies can also suggest that these types of projects can have potential negative health consequences, which I don't want to face and I certainly don't want to subject my children to. To address one of the board members' questions from earlier. I work from home. I use my cell phone. I am in sales. It is 90% of what I do on my daily basis. I have no issue with my cell phone coverage. Matter of fact, even if I'm standing right outside the White House, rarely do I have five bars of service. In 2019, 2020, the board rejected a similar proposal at 107 Emory Court for similar issues and concerns. I'm here in strong opposition of the project and I'm here to ask the board consider and vote against the proposed proposal. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Peck. Would anybody else like to speak? Sir, good evening. Hi. My name is Tim Schlenz, Shawnee district. I live in Lakeside, which would be affected. I spoke to these gentlemen before. They actually sought me out after coming over to them and tried to convince me that my home's value would not be affected. Citing a study that I did in the summer of 2018, the city of Shawnee, the state of Shawnee, said that they had an increase in the number of homes that were affected by the pandemic. This is a study that was published by the New York Times. It was published in the New York Times. It was published in the New York Times. The study was published in the New York Times. It was published in the New York Times. The study was published in the New York Times. It was published in the New York Times. And there's some contradictory information in opposition to that, that it will be affected. And I keep hearing over and over, five years planning, five years planning. It's a study. It's a study, and there are contradictory information and opposition to that that it will be affected. The child's person that wrote this story is a parent of my child. The woman that gave birth and had their child umaike, the person who gave birth to them, and she went then for three minor plastic surgery. Yeah. We were going to go off together in Belgium. She was always a pele? Actually, it changed cross country as well. The woman kein right-hand girl is nine months. So the two-year-old was 10, and I'm the one who left after 14 September' high schoolers. Every one, so, And I keep hearing over and over five years planning, five years planning. I got some years here, 13 years, 13 years that we've been in our home that we have not had to look at a tower that will destroy parts of the area's wildlife. And what all the other people said before, I am in 100% agreement with. I ask you all to vote against this. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Yes, sir. Chairman, members. My name is Bob Lask. I live in Shawnee District. As you can see, there's a lot of concern here. Now, these are the only people that have found out about it. These are the only people that border where that property is. Right? So I moved here about seven years ago. I'm an air traffic controller. I wanted to get away from Northern Virginia. Frederick County is, in my opinion, one of the best places to live in Virginia. And I didn't know about this until maybe four or five days ago. You know, I live right at the end of Brandy Lion Drive, almost as close to that thing as you can get it. And I heard one of the members up here say, I wish we could have put cell phone towers in before we built our subdivisions. Well, I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Well, if I look at that map up there, right up there to the north, I see a lot of green space. I know Mr. Artrip owns a lot up there, which you, Mr. T-Mobile men, you can talk with Mr. Artrip about that. I know there's an investment firm that owns a large track up there as well. But, you know, I can find you any study you want that's going to support anything that you want. But, you know, I can find you any study you want that's going to support anything that you want. Go to carbonfabricade.com for everything. It's basically an established book selling the best last minute, the greatest,kusher at last minute, of the world. You know, you winegage this money and you want to argue. So, you can give me three or four comments. Okay. Isn't this pretty exciting? Think about this. Remember, right at this point like the World's First World Baiji Culture Festival last year,ผม还想让大家听一下 security gameplay yeah. But, while I do that, I also want to tell you something I've heard several times. It's exactly the same as I have done Secretary of Hafa's previous speech. He talked about climate change. Now I want to tell you something else. market has skyrocketed. So I've been living there for seven years. I have AT&T. No issues. No issues, right? One of the reasons we moved there is because it's so peaceful, right? It's beautiful. And I don't want to look at this thing. None of these people want to look at this thing. The people that don't even butt up to the property, I guarantee you I'll do a study right now, given the choice between a house with a cell phone tower and a house with not. Who here will pick the house with the cell phone tower? By a raise of hands. That's what I thought. Yeah, I don't need a study. This is common sense, right? So I think it would be a poor decision, a very poor decision. Not a very poor decision. Not a very poor decision. not a very poor decision. just for the residents of the Shawnee district. It's a poor business decision because you're 30 feet down in a gully to start with. You're losing 30 feet of height. You're as low as you can get because there's a crick right there. Is my timer up? Yes, sir. Okay. Well, thank you for your time. I hope you guys vote no against this. There's plenty of other options that are available out there. These guys are here to make money, which, hey, listen, they're businessmen. I don't blame them. They're here to make money. The Water District wants to make money on the rent. I get it. But this affects the residents, okay? This isn't why I moved here. All right. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Yes, ma'am. Good evening. Good evening. I'm Sherry Long, and I'm a 16- or 17-year resident. I'm a resident in Wakeland Manor, Shawnee District. And I would agree with almost everything that's been said here. One of the concerns that I have is that the Glaze Enterprises, I think it is, owns that land next to Mr. R. Tripp. It's a very, they own several parcels. So how were they planning to develop that? And the county should have looked at that. More concerning, though, is that Wakeland Manor owns roughly 20 acres that adjoins the property that the sanitation department is in control of. That means that the entrance road that I don't think exists more than a little bit of a dirt path, somebody's going to have to build a road back there. And I haven't heard them say that they would be footing the bill for that. The other thing that I think is going to happen is that the property that the sanitation department owns has already been brought up about the payments. It was roughly five to seven years ago that a company came in and wanted to build a tower just short distance away on Wakeland Manor property, which when you reach the fence that's closed off to go into this property, 17 acres plus some outside, roughly 20 acres, are actually saltwater. And that's a lot of money. And they're going to be putting that down. And then the other thing that I think is going to be important, and I think I'm going to take this up, is that the property that belongs to the homeowners association of Wakeland Manor, New Wakeland Manor, now, when they came through before, there was of course an offer of money to use it. The community didn't want it. And with our neighbors commenting, it went away. Interestingly enough, they've come back literally with the property that adjoins it. They would have to go across HOA property, which I'm sure there is an easement there that the county would have. But these are just things that need to be considered and haven't been mentioned. The other thing is that as the gentleman just mentioned, I actually took a measurement of the level, what do you call it, sea level, at the gate entrance of this, of the Wakeland Manor property actually, which spreads back and I can't see whether it's lower at other spots on that property. But it was roughly when I did the math and I went up on Brandy Line, which is one of the closest in the Wakeland Manor area where the houses are going to back up to this, there was a 40-foot difference. That means the pole is here, the houses are one-fourth of the distance up that 150. Originally, when they tried to do this a few years ago, they wanted a 200-foot tower. And then they reduced the height and tried to get it through and the community rejected it. So just food for thought. And by the way, I have two bars and I'm doing fine. Does anybody else like to speak? Yes, ma'am. Good evening. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I'm Jania Newbert from Shawnee District. I've lived in the West Coast for about a year now. I've lived in the West Coast for about a year now. I've lived in Wakeland Manor for the past 20 years and I've had AT&T for the past 20 years. I've had no problems. I'm making international calls on a regular basis and no problem with the service. If it's okay, we have some neighbors who were not able to attend this evening who just gave me their statements. And I think it would also speak to the point of service and what service is like in the area. This is from Meredith Savi in the Shawnee District. I oppose the construction of the new cell phone tower in our neighborhood because there's no demonstrated need for better service. Our current coverage is already reliable and no widespread issues related to drop calls or slow data. Installing a new tower would bring unnecessary infrastructure into our community without solving any real problems. It makes little sense to disrupt the neighborhood when existing cell towers already meet residents' needs effectively. This is from Dr. Darrell and Gretchen Volchak. As citizens of the Shawnee District, specifically Wakeland Manor in Stephen City, my wife and I both strongly oppose the proposed construction of the cell phone tower near my residence. As Verizon cell phone customers, we have no idea what to do. We have never had an issue with our cell coverage anywhere in Stephen City or Winchester area. There's no need for additional towers in our area and existing towers should be utilized for other providers. Thank you. This is from Stephanie Roderick, Shawnee District. My name is Stephanie. I have been a resident of Shawnee Magistral District since 2009. I would like to voice my concern on the addition of the new proposed cell tower in the back of my development, Wakeland Manor. I find it an unnecessary build as cell phone reception at not only my home but driving and walking around the development have been more than adequate. I often walk my dog within and around the development area while using my phone and have no issues. I appreciate the offer of adding additional coverage. In the area, I find it absolutely unnecessary and redundant since we already have good cell phone coverage and I'm against this building of a new cell phone tower. Thank you for your time. Regent Pam Houlin from Wakeland Manor says our cell phone service is fine and we don't need a new tower. I have one on my cell phone. Let's see. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I have one on my cell phone. Let's . Can I say it because it's not me. Let's hope AT&T pulls through. Okay. To whom this may concern, my family and I live in the Shawnee Magistral District and we strongly oppose the proposed new cell phone tower. Additional coverage is not needed. There is no valid reason for installing an ugly piece of steel in our landscape, which would serve as an extension of the development that we have already had. It is an additional support that we would like to provide. which would serve no purpose other than to disrupt the natural habitat of our area or proposed installation. Please stop this project from moving any further. Nobody wants or needs this. Respectfully, Jeff and Lynn Thurton from 104 Covent Court. Thank you. Ms. Newt, would you be kind enough to give the copies that you have to Ms. Pelican over there so she can enter those into the record? Thank you very much. Would anybody else like to speak? I didn't comment earlier. I just asked for the message. Yes, sir. I didn't know if that was the extent of your comments or not. So, again, Bill McKnight, Shawnee District. I'm in agreement with what was said here tonight that I just want to formally say that I disagree with the tower going up. I'm opposed to it. I've also noticed that there are no citizens here commenting in favor of the tower. And if they were in favor of it, they were also, you know, that's the way it's supposed to be. So, I'm just going to say that I'm not in favor of it. I'm in favor of the citizens that were informed. They're not here to speak up from that side of things. And my third comment is they brought up that there are 12 Indian tribes that have supposedly approved this. What bearing does that have other than politics? Thank you very much, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Yes, sir. Good evening. Good evening, sir. My name is Danny Argero. I'm in Shawnee District. I live in Brandy Line on Brandy Line Drive in Wakeland Manor, the old Wakeland Manor. I understand that the property that is being chosen is 14 acres owned by Frederick Water. And I'm not sure if that's true. They're going to be leasing from Frederick Water. And the tower is going to be hopefully supporting 522 South is what I understand. A lot of the citizens need coverage on 522 South. Well, just east of this property that they're talking about is also Frederick County property, the bus garage and the water treatment plant. I understand it's not going to be a big piece of property they're going to be using. So my question is, why dump this thing in the middle of three subdivisions, north, east, and south? I'm just questioning the legality, not the legality, but the reasoning behind it then. That's what I just want to say. I've had a few other questions, but they've already been answered. So thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Leslie Spencer. I'm at the Gainsborough District. I'd like to respectfully ask that we reconsider the location of this proposed cell tower. I have a better model for development of the Shenandoah Valley. And on page 114, it calls for a better development plan. First, I'm not asking to have more towers than we already need or that we need. But right here on page 14 of the Valley Conservation Council, it clearly recommends that cell towers be placed carefully. And one idea is to use existing buildings whenever possible to reduce sprawl and visual disruption, especially in scenic areas. A nearby example might be the roof of Walmart or another large commercial development that's already part of our developed corridor and already creates development sounds. This isn't about opposing connectivity. It's about making a wise choice for our landscape and following best practices that have already been laid out by respected regional conservation leaders. Please let's take the time to explore that option before moving forward. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else want to speak? Yes, sir. Hi. My name is Ed Dyke. I'm in the Shawnee District. This is the third time that I've been in an area where somebody wants to build a tower. I was in Fluvanna in the 90s when they first started this mess and we run them out of there because Sprint wanted to stick up a tower on Virginia Power's property and we said, no thank you, and this was out in the middle of nowhere. This is in the middle of everything. Second place was in Louisa. Same thing. Very similar situation. Virginia Power wanted to allow the tower there. Everything else that was going on was okey-dokey. But we're going to do it. Nobody wanted it there. It was in the middle of nowhere. This was around 2008. And now I have this one three times. These things are a monstrosity. Nobody's getting bad service. In fact, this is the best service I've ever had in my life since I lived up here. I'm ecstatic. And I too walk my dog around all through those areas and I have no issues. So please, the Planning Commission in Fluvanna, Louisa, shut them down. Please do the same. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there anybody else who would like to speak? Anybody at all? I will close the public hearing. Mr. Yates, Mr. Foltz, do you care to respond to any of the comments that have been made? They talked longer than I did. You can't get mad at me. They talked longer. 3B. 3B, sir. 3Bs. To the point. Nobody ever comes for us with welcome signs. That's the tough part about putting infrastructure in. I take it back to the basics. The county has an ordinance. We followed it. We found a piece of property of sufficient size. We put a utility with a utility. Am I going to win a popularity contest? No. Are there fears? Yes. True fears? They're the fears of the unknown. And they're incorrect. Yes, you can see a tower. You look at it every second. It's there. It's a piece of steel. You drive around the county, there are towers everywhere. There are towers in neighborhoods. People don't get transfixed by them. I know it's change. And I know change is scary. But the fact of the matter. Please consider. We follow the rules. This has been worked on for five years. We found, thanks to Frederick Water, a perfect place. It works for the carriers who wouldn't be doing this if they were not planning needs for the future, trying to solve problems before they come problems. There is no noise. There is no odor. There are no lights. There's no vibration. There's no glare. There's no noise. There's no noise. There's no noise. But what it does is preserve the ability to have robust infrastructure in that area. Again, we can come back. There'll always be three or four neighborhoods around what we're trying to do. Again, that's what we're trying to serve. We're trying to serve. These are nice folks, but I think if we're allowed to do it, I think their fears will not be realized at all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? So I'm going to turn it back over now to Senator Lee. Senator Lee, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm going to turn it over to Senator Lee. Senator Lee, I think Senator Lee and Senator Lee, we've been on this list for a while now. We've been on this list for a while now. I think the proposal is quite important. I think it's quite important. I think it's the right thing to do. And I think the future will be good for all of us. We've followed the rules. We asked you to consider it based on the ordinance. Did we meet the requirements of the ordinance? Have we gone the extra, extra mile here in working with Frederick Water for this property, a utility property, with really good tree cover around it? Thank you. sorry the public hearings closer yes sir that's our process yes sir miss Pellequin do you have anything to summarize sure to summarize this conditional use permit application is for a 150 foot tall monopole telecommunications tower and the Shawnee magisterial district and tonight staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors Thank You ma'am okay the public has spoken the applicants responded this is an opportunity for commissioners to discuss the project so to my right any comments okay I'll go to my left side first comments miss Brandon to me infrastructure is to do coverage and coverage and to do coverage and to do coverage and to do coverage and to do clearly they have coverage and like we talk about future problems and that they're not going to be realized where maybe their fear of suddenly internet's gonna fall apart it's not going to be realized either so if it's not broke don't fix it any other comments to my left mr. market it seems like a lot of seems to me with the 14 acres of the location could have been better, moved farther away from the homes. Correct me if I'm wrong, but it seems like there could have been a better solution even with this project on this property. Any other comments to my left? Okay, I'll go to my right. Any comments to my right? I had one quick question for the applicant. We had asked about the generator, if I may, about the generator. Is there any other noise associated with these? Any cooling units or anything like that that would create any noise? Outside the compound, any noise would be under 60 dB. And the generator, again, is just when the power's out in the surrounding area, but it is tested periodically. Right, right. Not the generator. Or anything else that would be... Okay. Nothing outside the compound, 60 dB maximum. Okay, thank you. Mr. Akins? I got a few questions, some for staff, if that's okay. Wyatt, how does other municipalities, counties, handle the planning of this sort of utility infrastructure? Yeah. Mr. Marker brought up a point earlier about the comprehensive plan and compliance with that. Some localities do take proactive steps to identify ideal areas for telecommunications infrastructure, but it's an inherently perilous endeavor. In the same way, it's difficult for these guys to pick a place that's not going to frustrate people and still going to provide service. It's not any easier for the county to do so. Right now, Frederick County's focus has been entirely on ensuring that they've exhausted co-locations, opportunities on existing infrastructure, and then reviewing each on a case-by-case basis on its merits. Would it be unreasonable for a municipality to have in their zoning ordinance or building code, maybe it's not building code, but their zoning ordinance about ensuring the cell phone utility infrastructure is in place based off of the closest nearest pole or something like that? Is there, I know I'm rambling a little bit, but I'm trying to find the best way to explain it, that if in this situation, there's many of acres to the north, and, but these different cell phone companies would not be wanting to invest if there wasn't a need. Either maybe, there may not be a huge need now, but as more development comes to the area, there is going to be a need. So is there anything from a development perspective that the county could do to help? Is there anything that the county could do to say, hey, you know what, based off the density of homes in this area, this new project has to allocate or proffer X amount of acres for a tower? Is that unheard of or just a horrible idea? To my knowledge, it would be kind of blazing a new frontier in that respect. But I think what you might also be alluding to through it is to provide some sort of kind of metrics for underserved areas, in the same way we talk about road infrastructure and growth, and, you know, there's a lot of things that we need to do to help. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. And I think that's a great point. I think it's a great point. And I think there's a lot of things that we can do to help, you know, we'll have to incorporate it on levels of service A through, you know, E or F. When it's failing, maybe something similar could be developed for telecom infrastructure. Communities don't delve into that typically because it is private infrastructure that's being provided by private companies. Communities don't delve into that typically because it is private infrastructure that's being provided by private companies. And there is competition amongst those companies. And in turn, it's a place you really don't want to get into the middle of, if you can avoid it. Whereas, our local public infrastructure providers have a natural monopoly on providing water service, and so in fact, we're going to have to look at how we're going to get to the middle of that. if you can avoid it, whereas our local public infrastructure providers have a natural monopoly on providing water service or electric service or things of that nature. We build the roads, VDOT maintains the roads. So I know that doesn't directly answer your question, but that's my knowledge on the topic. Well, that was my thought, to be honest with you. I mean, we always talk about, is there water infrastructure? Is it theirs? How's the roads? Is there power? But we never really talk about this other really important utility that everybody wants to have and use, but they don't want in their backyard either. I mean, myself included. The internet service, and I apologize for interrupting, internet service for the longest time wasn't considered in any way or respect comparable to those other infrastructure elements. But as the world has evolved, it has become more of a necessity. So the lack of it, and it not existing at all, is why the county's involved with the VATI initiative through the state. To run broadband to the rural areas and ensure that people have access to internet. But beyond ensuring that there's a singular provider there, typically communities don't get into what is a competitive private environment. Got it. All right. Thank you. Appreciate that. Okay. Other comments, questions to my right? Mr. Thomas? Yes. I have lived in my current house for over 45 years. I'm currently in the Shawnee district. And I can see a cell tower from my front yard. I think it's Verizon is on it. I don't know if anybody else is. And I've been able to see that tower for about 15 years now. It's a lattice tower. Lattice towers are not very attractive compared to a monopole tower. And it bothered me for probably the first six months after it was built. Now I don't even see it unless I go out and actually look for it. You know, it's kind of just faded into the background. Like cell towers, power poles, utilities often do. We don't need any additional cell towers under one circumstance. If we never build another house, never sell another cell phone, never have another internet connection, or nobody hooks up their home security system to a Wi-Fi network or their cell tower. So as long as we want to do those four things, we don't need additional cell phone towers. And oh, by the way, we won't, our service won't degrade below a two bar or whatever you're currently getting. However, that is probably as practical as saying it's going to snow tomorrow. It's not going to happen. Frederick County is growing. It has been growing for a long time. And I like the comment that my fellow planning commissioner made here. When we approve residential areas, I think we ought to start thinking whether we can approve an area that is set aside for cell phone towers. That it is already rezoned for that. And a cell phone tower can be built there. However, we're not at that area. We're not in that situation right now. And unfortunately, you need cell phone towers in residential areas. And yes, you're going to be able to see them in residential areas. We don't need another cell phone tower out in North Mountain where there's nobody living. You need it where people use the cell phones, use internet, use home security systems. So we're going to have to think about that. And I think that's going to be a big part of the process. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. a good point to that, but you're still going to be able to see them from a residential area. It doesn't do you any good to put it on a commercial building that's nowhere near a residential area where the use is. Cell phone towers are one of those things that you need to put where the use is going to be. They're not set up. It's a line of sight operation. They're not set up that they can pump a signal for 500 miles and not need another tower. So we're at a point where we're one of those hard, between a rock and a hard place of trying to decide what we want to do. When the cell phone tower that I can see in my front yard was built, I was on the planning commission and I actually voted for it. I got a lot of flack for voting for it. My neighbors weren't happy. But back in the 90s when it was built, or in I guess early 2000s when it was built, it was needed. It's still needed now. An additional tower. So I know that we have 20, 30 people out here that are against it. But it's a hard decision that we're going to have to talk about. I'd like to add, I mean, it's a question we need to ask ourselves, timing and schedule. That's what I struggle with. Do we need this now? I know it takes 60 days to erect and construct. It's going to be a problem. We're going to need it. Whether today, a couple years from now, we're going to need it. But do we, do we rip the bandaid off now? Or do we wait a couple more years and figure out, look and see if we really need it. That's what I'm struggling with is schedule. And I live in the area too and I have T-Mobile and my cell phone service is up and down. I don't have high speed internet to my home. So, and I live near the airport. So I see, see all the things, but just. Question timing is my biggest concern. Any other comments or questions to my right? Any others? Okay, this is Shawnee. What would you like to do? Mr. Chairman, I move that we recommend approval to the Board of Supervisors for CUP 05-25, Arcadia Towers. The motion is for recommendation of approval. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any further discussion? Hearing none, we'll begin to vote. The vote is recommendation of approval. A yes vote is agreeing with recommending approval. A no vote is not agreeing with that. Mr. Whitaker? Can you please start our voting? Whitaker, no. Akins, no. DeHaven, yes. Kearns, yes. Kozol, no. Thomas, yes. Margaret, yes. Sneddon, no. Botthorpe, no. McKay, yes. Brumbach, no. Brennan, no. No. Chair votes no and the motion fails. That now opens the floor for... I know, we're not done yet. That opens the floor for anybody to make a motion. I'll make a motion to deny the current proposed development. The motion is for recommendation of denial of the current tower location of the CUP. I'm sorry, recommendation is denial of the CUP. Is there a second? I'll second. There is a motion and a second. Is there any further discussion? I'll start on this end this time. Ms. Brennan, can you please start us off? Ms. Brennan. Brennan, yes. Brumbach, yes. McKay, no. Botthorpe, yes. Sneddon, yes. Margaret, no. Thomas, no. Kozol, yes. Kearns, no. DeHaven, no. Akins, yes. Whitaker, yes. Chair votes yes and the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors with the recommendation for denial on September the 10th. Thank you very much to all who came out. Thank you for your time. Thank you. That takes us to Item 7C, 2025-2030 Capital Improvement Plan, CIP, Mr. Bishop. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Just a moment, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I still say they got Frederick Waters, Arkins Mill plant across the road. Good evening, Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. As noted, staff is coordinating a minor update, frankly, of the capital improvement plan, purpose of which is specifically to bolster pending applications with VDOT under two programs. First of those programs is the revenue sharing. Just to be clear, the ones I just feel like I've got to make sure I tell you all of the actual pending applications so you know what we're up to, but the ones that are underlined are the three projects we're adding to your CIP this evening. First program is revenue sharing. First project is Warrior Drive extension and branding lane upgrade to a state road, Route 11 widening and intersection upgrade at Shawnee Drive. Those are actually two previously approved projects that we're just trying to get more money on. Bruce Town Road, Hopewell Road alignment to bring them into an alignment where they intersect with Route 11. Back Mountain Road. Our cut intersection as part of the VDOT pipeline study. We were nearly successful in smart scale. We got Hayfield upgraded, but we're getting Hayfield upgraded rather, but we did not quite make the cut on this intersection, frankly, not because of bad scoring, just because of not enough money, frankly. Moving into the transportation alternatives program. I should have mentioned revenue sharing. We're always seeking a 50-50 arrangement there. The transportation alternatives program, which is an 80%, 20% County. The projects we're going to be adding to the CIP. The projects we're going to be adding to the CIP. The projects we're going to be adding to the CIP. Just for you to know if you ever think of seeing it, you can come in and процесс記得 absolutely what you're receiving. But the plan is for about 1 Point 10 , 1 Point 30, 1 Point 60 2 Point 50, 1 Point 30 , and 2 Point 60 and above. So customers don't pay two-page tickets for all of the costs. Approximate service cost is 10ways interest per month to get in an alignment, even as you start your journey through our business planning and transportation partners, retail meeting, great's very elbow in the shoulder, basic services, tradition all across the state of Maryland. What we've done in some of the new projects is Preventive consecnsion programs and the ним's' PIT we just started training again tonight.cape is a fair there's a wide variety of school programs. trail there all the way out to White Oak Road, so we'd like to fill in that gap. That would mix in very well with application we were successful with on the previous round, which also adds trail all the way up Warrior Drive to its extent north from Tasker Road, including a crossing of Tasker Road at Warrior Drive. This is what the actual table looks like. Once again, the three projects which are being added are highlighted in yellow. I can't read it either, but I just told you about them. Finally, the Transportation Committee did review this item at their July 28th meeting and has recommended approval. This is a public hearing item as an update to your capital improvement plan. If I wasn't clear before, this is frankly all about competitiveness of your applications as VDOT scores them for funding. That's the reason we're doing it. Frankly, for a TAP application, if it's not in CIP, it doesn't qualify. Thank you. For a revenue-sharing application, it gets you to a Tier 1 instead of a Tier 3 level of consideration, increases your likelihood of funding. As I noted, we are seeking a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors from the Planning Commission this evening. Very good. Hey, a quick question. Sorry. I know Ms. Brannon mentioned this earlier. The R-Cut at Back Mountain Road, is that out at the intersection of Route 50? Yes. Okay. Good. Boy, that desperately needs help. As is the one that was successful at Hayfield. At Hayfield, yes. Okay. Yes. Are there any questions for Mr. Bishop? Can you elaborate on the West Brindler Canberra Drive intersection? Certainly. I should have thrown some maps together, but I apologize. I might have sort of minimized our efforts this evening. But basically, right now, we have over the years, frankly, gotten a number of requests from folks within that retirement community. Right now, between trails and sidewalks, it's no trouble to walk from within that retirement community out to 522. Unfortunately, there's nothing to help those folks get across 522. On to Rivendell Court to access the grocery store, should they choose to walk to the grocery store, the pharmacy within Martin's, the ABC store, whatever they may want over there, Chinese food, the bank, a lot of resources there for folks. And you've got folks that want to walk and people are worried about their safety. So, we're trying to improve that and make it a little better for them if we're successful. Any other questions? I do. What exactly was the R-Cut at Back Mountain Road? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I'm joking. Just kidding! Basically, what that does is the particular problem out there or in many intersections where in our code, it's one of VDOT's alternative intersection designs that they're so fond of particularly on primary highways these days. If we were trying to get a signalization, we'd be caught up forever and still unsuccessful at the end. This came out of a study that was done in combination with VDOT. What it does is reduce that conflict by the moving industry area in that way. It blocks out more of the traffic sin Pεί, But it's not, where can you imagine the traffic sin of what it does in other places. crossover to where if you're trying to come off of Back Mountain Road and head further west on 50 you actually still have to make that right turn so you're gonna make a right turn and then just upstream you will be merging over and come to a controlled u-turn situation and come back come back west you can still if you're heading westbound already and making that left on the Back Mountain Road that move can still happen it just it removes that conflict at that crossover and that's been the majority of our real problems there any other questions my left to my right any questions comments thank you very much sir yes sir this is a public hearing if anybody would like to speak to this item this would be the time to do so please come to the podium state your name Magisterial District and limit your comments to three minutes would anybody like to speak no one wants no one twice I will close the public hearing this is any discussion among commissioners on this I'll be glad to entertain a motion for action on this no I need a motion I'll make a motion to approve is presented Thank You sir is there a second second any discussion okay miss Brandon can you start us off please Brennan yes Brumbach yes McKay yes Botworf yes Sneddon yes Markard yes Thomas yes Kozo yes Kern yes DeHaven yes Akins yes Whitaker yes Chair votes yes the motion is passed this will go to the Board of Supervisors on August the 13th in just a week so thank you very much sir that takes us to item eight Mr. Pearson is there anything you'd like to add under current planning命 just a couple things Mr. Chairman first you all should have an email in your inbox trying to schedule some comp plan conversations to kick off our five-year comp plan update please let us know when you're available it's going to be really informal to give you some questions advance so you're not surprised by any of our conversations as an update for those who were tracking the inter parcel waiver connection for Lake Frederick we were able to sign a master development plan for what would be revision six and the final MDP phases for Lake Frederick and it did include an inter parcel connection we worked with them pretty thoroughly on that to get something written that we could all agree to we're also reviewing site plans for the Publix grocery store on 277 and the Jordan Springs elementary school expansion and then this is just your reminder this is the last month of summer meeting cancellations so you won't have a second August meeting in September we'll go back to two meetings a month so happy to answer any questions mr. chairman I would just say thank you for continuing to work with the folks at Lake Frederick and and the developer there to to accomplish that I think that's a win for the county any questions for mr. yes sir mr. Pearson we don't have any legal representative here tonight would it be possible to change the rules for the public school district and the public school district in the future when they actually have any member of legislation to help them fit and bring inگa like I said to abstain but I don't think that's able to happen tonight is the second thing is dips are running well those are the most larger ones as a co-runner if not dare we update if we hire a voting board to know what other aid is going on you know we were unable to identify when we heard about Mr. Eakins and Mr. própria the general Trip encont drift whole shopping cell phone people that want to come in. I don't know if we make it a part of the HOA's land where the HOA would actually rent it to them, but already have it that it's rezoned, that we don't have to go through this, you know, the public meeting again to try to get a cell phone in a residential area, which I don't know that we'll ever build another cell phone tower in Frederick County in a residential area, even if it's needed. So can we legally do that when it's not a public utility? I mean, I don't have an answer to that. Yeah, no, and you certainly can. The way the ordinance is structured now, you just need to be processing a conditional use permit alongside of the rezoning. The challenge is residential developers aren't particularly interested in preparing all the materials that meet the ordinance requirements to submit the telecom tower. You could not skip all that. That's probably the way the ordinance is structured. They have to give all those materials and go through a conditional use permit process, but you could do it, you'd ask the residential developer to accommodate it, include it in their plans, and bring it forward as part of their rezoning. They don't have to if they don't want to pay the money to do the studies to justify it and meet those ordinance requirements, but you could ask them to. Well, they could actually go out and contact a cell phone tower developer and have them do it for them. Yeah, it'd be ideal if it were not built prior to the homes being built, it would be prudent to. Yeah, it's a good point. If you have some amount of notification requirement for any homes sold in there that it would be built eventually and where it would be built so people knew buying into it so you don't deal with it later down the road when it gets erected and people are furious because they weren't notified about it. Yeah, we haven't put it on the master development plan. I would say indeed, honestly. Yeah. As much as I love master development plans, people don't look at them as much as I do. But having it as part of the sale documents would be the best practice. Or the pretty model in the showroom, something like that. Yeah. Thank you very much, sir. That takes us to the end of our agenda. Is there a motion for adjournment? So moved. Is there a second? All in favor say aye. Aye. We stand adjourned. Thank you very much. Be careful going home.
