Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-02-25
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=325
========================================================================

you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I call to order the Frederick County Board of Supervisors on Wednesday, February 25th, 2026 board meeting. Pastor Sam Rogers of Hope Valley House Churches is here to do the invocation. Pastor Sam. Thank you for the honor and privilege of being here tonight and the invitation to pray. If you'll join me. Father God, eternal source, of all wisdom and authority, we ask for your blessing and guidance on these proceedings. I thank you for our governing officials and for their commitment to serve the needs of our community. I ask that you would bless them for their service. Lord, give them insight, prudence, discernment, and peace so that they may not be unduly burdened by their work. May they be a blessing to the people and may your spirit unite our community in love, peace, justice, and mercy. Bless as Lord and our days ahead. We welcome you here. By Your grace, we ask and receive these things. Amen. Amen. Please stand. 4 you ребята, as your gestures your mentor, it's very Etheriskic to here is with the flag of the United States of America. Thank you. It's very show. It's my pleasure to have you today. Okay, we have adoption of the agenda. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to remove item 13A from the agenda for this meeting for further discussion and another meeting about six months from now. Okay, we've got a motion. Second that. Okay, we've got a motion. We've got a second. All those in favor? Aye. All right. Anybody opposed? Good to go. Thank you. Next item up is citizens' comments. Mr. Chairman, we're going to adopt the agenda as amended. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. Yep, absolutely. Mr. Chairman, I move to adopt the agenda as amended. We've got a motion. That's a motion. Second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? All right. Now we're good. Thank you for keeping me straight, sir. All right. Citizens' comments. This is for any agenda item that is not subject to a public hearing. Madam Chair. Mr. Chairman, we had no one sign up for this comment period. No one signed up. Does anybody want to speak? Hello. Hi. I just wanted to make one comment. Do you mind? Come up. I appreciate it so much. Come up. State your name, magisterial district, and this is for something on the agenda. I don't know how it all works, but I'll only take three minutes if it's okay. I appreciate you. Go for it. And I want to say thank you to Michael last night for hosting it. This is just a general just loving plea. Firstly, I appreciate you all being here, and thank you so much for guiding us through this process. I just want to talk to a minute about data centers in our community. My name is Elizabeth Ehler. I'm a Frederick County homeowner. I live on a well. I've got three kids, a single mom. I just work in data centers. I work at a global law firm, and I've been on it since the beginning of the ground running. And I just wanted to express how dangerous and how prudent it is for us to go very, very slow through a process of data centers that can be very disruptive for our way of life here as community members. Frederick County, to me, is an oasis. It's one of the most beautiful places I've ever been in the whole world. And opening the gates to the people that are telling you and selling you that this type of business is good business is folly. And respectfully, all of the damage that can be occurred, the environmental impact, the electrical grids, the water grids, none of these statistics that they present to you are correct. They have people coming in and trying to make up and generate income in order to be able to get quick money. And I just want to express my deep, deep, deep resonating concern for the pollinators and for the birds, for our biochemistry, because these data centers are extremely dangerous. They put a target on our back as a security risk, and they hurt our very deep culture here in Frederick County and Winchester, which I love dearly. So I just ask, as you guys move through the process, of kind of considering new business models, to be very prudent and very slow. Because I think within 18 months, you're going to see all of this bubble burst, and it's not going to be what they told you, and you're going to see a lot of counties suffering. I grew up in Loudoun County, and it is a deserted waste zone. I grew up on 10 acres there, and it's gone. So I'm just asking you, and I'm begging you, just to walk very carefully and very thoughtfully through the process. I really appreciate that. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else want to talk about anything on the agenda? Okie dokie. I'll close that part. Next up is consent agenda. How would the board like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we adopt the consent agenda as presented. Okay. I have a motion. Second. I have a second. This is a roll call vote. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Supervisor Aikens? Aye. Supervisor Gouvernment? Aye. And the chair votes aye. We're good on the consent agenda. Next item up is board of supervisors comments. Do we have any? I'm looking. Moving on. All right. Next item up is county officials. Madam Clerk, if you would be so kind as to read the presentation of resolution, please. Staff, and Herweise, I request that you and Mr. Chairman think ahead to therandane, the Director of Finance in April 1993 and was then promoted to Director of Finance on October 1st 1993. And whereas during her tenure Cheryl excelled at bringing innovative ideas and efficiencies to the department and pioneered the purchasing card program which has provided great savings to the county in addition to streamlining routine necessary purchasing practices, was instrumental in moving the county toward digital financial record storage and coordinated with County Administration and the Board of Supervisors to create Frederick County's capital fund. And whereas under Cheryl's leadership Frederick County has received the Government Finance Officers Association Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting for its annual comprehensive financial report for 39 consecutive years and the popular annual financial report award for 19 consecutive years and also has received the Government Finance Officer Association December 2020. And we are proud to present Cheryl with the Distinguished Budget Presentation for 39 consecutive years. Whereas throughout her many years of service Cheryl has served the people of this county with fairness and dedication. Therefore be it resolved that we the members of the Board do hereby extend to Cheryl our sincere and grateful appreciation for her dedicated service to the Finance Department, the Board of Supervisors, and to Frederick County and send our congratulations on her well-earned retirement and our best wishes for continued success, happiness, and prosperity. And good health in the years to come. Adopted this 25th day of February 2026. Thank you ma'am. Cheryl, that's the resolution that was just read. There you go. A little picture over there. Hold on. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Done for the county. Thank you. And you're welcome. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. All right. We also have a second person retiring this week. Jennifer, we just want to thank you for all your service to the county. You know, it's like I guess we're losing the ying and the yang here is what we're doing. And we just greatly appreciate all you've done for us as well. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Okay, folks. Next up is appointments. To the boards. First up is Parks and Recreation at Large. Mr. Chair, I'd like to nominate James Patrick Anderson for the Parks and Rec Commission at Large representative for an unexpired four-year term ending on September 14th, 2028. Patrick Anderson, it goes by Patrick, by the way, is a 30-plus year veteran of Frederick County Public Schools. He's been a PE teacher at Sheridan High School. Head soccer coach. Admiral Burr Middle School football coach. Currently a student support specialist at the school board office. Outstanding individual. I'd like to nominate him for the Parks and Rec at Large rep. Okay. We've got a motion. Second. We've got a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? Good to go. Thank you, Patrick, for serving on Parks and Rec. All right. We've got Parks and Recreation Commission. Peckin District, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman and board. I'd like to recommend that we make a motion that we appoint Rusty Sandy, Charles Rusty Sandy, to the board for a four-year term. Rusty has been on the board before and was off for a while. Contact me. We'd like to serve again. He's been chairman. He's just done a wonderful job in that position. So, I'm looking forward to that. I'm looking forward to having him back on the board. Thank you very much. All right. Second. And it's not a board without a Sandy on it. It's been on there for years. That's awesome. Okay. We've got a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? You better not. Okay. Frederick Water. Yes, sir. I'm going to go ahead and say, sir, Hank Slowinski that the Northern Plains named after 43 years, I believe, of working at Frederick Water and serving two terms as a board member, he's had enough. He has done great things for our organization. Then Ms. Martha Dilge of Stephen City and was on the board expressed interest in coming back. She used to be the vice chairman of Frederick Water, so I'd nominate her. All right. Second. We got a motion. And we got a second. All those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? Tell Martha welcome back. Aye. All those in favor? Aye. All those against? Aye. All right. We've got committee business here. Mr. Bishop, this is going to be photo red traffic signal enforcement. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. As you have noted, we have a motion and a second. We have a motion and a second. We have a second. We have a second. We have a second. We have a second. All right. Any discussion? All right. We are discussing photo red this evening, as was taken up by the transportation committee just recently. This was actually last discussed by the board in 2023. This is a tool that's available to you under state code 15.2-968.1, allowing photographic enforcement of running of red lights. Approximately 15 localities in Virginia that have it now. When we last talked about it, it was closer to 12. It's my understanding that city Winchester is going to be implementing it within the next couple months that number continues to grow. In terms of how the enforcement work those violations are collected via equipment that's put in by private firm with which the county would contract. Each violation has to in turn be certified by a sworn deputy of frederick county sheriff's office. And fines are currently capped at $50 hard to predict when that state code may change but that's what it is right now that doesn't include court costs or any of that. Potential next steps for the board should you choose to follow this recommendation from transportation committee and sheriff's office. Would be to go ahead and direct staff to hold the public hearings to adopt the ordinance the enabling legislation into your ordinance. After that point we would work on finding a partnership with a private firm. That private firm in turn. Would work with us to conduct the v dot studies that are required to get each location approved. To actually hold it you can have up to 9 here in frederick county based on population it's one intersection per 10,000 so where we are right now that equates to 9 and with that I can take any questions you may have any questions for mr bishop. John this is specifically the red light correct this is specifically for intersections yes. So let me say it's much needed. Because we have. A lot of people out there who just take the chance all the time we do we see we we all see it every day. And I left okay so you'd like a motion or you like guidance on what to do we're looking for a motion directing staff to go ahead with setting up the public hearings for you to be able to adopt the ordinance. Mr and I would move that we move the red light camera. Recommendations. To. Move forward for public hearing. Second all right we got a motion we got a second roll call vote here. Supervisor grumot yes. Supervisor aikens yes supervisor leo aye. Vice chair well. Supervisor orner aye. Supervisor oates aye. And the chair votes aye. Thank you mr bishop. All right. Next item up is. Public hearing. And it's a regarding abrams creek trail trailhead and parking. Mr chairman members of the board john turkel the assistant director of parks and recreation. And this public hearing item is for the approval of an easement to the virginia outdoor foundation on a parcel one acre parcel in the redbud district. As a condition of receiving grant funds from the. Virginia outdoor foundation. So. What I have up here on the slide is just an overview of the abrams creek trail just to just to kind of get everybody back up to speed. We have three the division for the trail is three phases basically going from sense you wrote out to. Channing drive and phase one is the gold section on the left of the screen. That's approximately one mile. And it goes from near sense the road to woodstock lane. That section is fully funded by v dot except for the trailhead and parking portion that is a local responsibility. So we applied for and received a grant from the virginia outdoor foundation for two hundred and six thousand six hundred eighty eight dollars that will cover the majority of the cost of the trailhead and parking. And again a condition of the. Of receiving those funds is the easement. On the one acre parcel. The language of the of the deed is is in your packet as well as the. As well as the outline of the. The grant agreement essentially the the takeaway is is that it's what's the land in open space. Accessible to the public in perpetuity which really is with a trailhead and parking area so it's. You know it seems seems like there shouldn't be an issue. That's. There. Again this is the this is the parcel is the same image that you have in your packet. It shows that that parcel. And the location of it. Anybody have any questions. Happy to answer those. Any questions. Look at my right. Look at my left. No questions but I do want to compliment parks and rec you all do a fabulous job. Of. Trying to get grants. All the projects you're working on thank you you know thank you so much I really appreciate that. Absolutely okay this the public hearing so I'll open up the public hearing is there. Yes and clerk. Cleo Strabakis. Yeah I actually like to start with the question. First things first oh sorry. Name and show district. Yes absolutely my name is Cleo Strabakis I actually live in Winchester City. I'm. But as far as of course for. Neighbors. So. I'm curious how many parking spots that. Trailhead will offer. I just want to comment because I saw that the last time this was brought up at a public hearing nobody spoke. And I think this is awesome. As somebody who is an outdoor enthusiast. And someone who loves. Our rivers and creeks. Virginia is known for. Unfortunately. Being a place where it's kind of difficult to access our creeks and rivers at times. And as you can see. From. The previous slide. The creek is surrounded by private property on all sides so it's really exciting to see that. There might be a development here for. Some access to the creek and some nature. Much needed so anyway I just want to provide that comment because I think this is awesome so. When I first thought I was like where is this. And it makes sense it doesn't exist yet so I'm very excited for this. Thank you ma'am. That's the end of the list Mister chairman. Thank you anybody else that would like to speak. Leslie Spain Spencer Gainesboro did oh with the last commenter said thank you very much for the parks and all of you in anybody that helped work on this thank you to the Virginia outdoor foundation as well this is really exciting to have more spots in nature. Throughout. County thank you. Thank you ma'am. Anybody else. All right I'm going to close. The public hearing. Board how would you like to handle this. Since this is in my district. This is not want to make the motion that we can motion to approve this action and move this project along. Second all right we got a motion we got a second there you go supervisor out. Supervisor order I vice chair. I. Supervisor Lear I. Supervisor Akins I. Supervisor Gugelmeier I. And the chair votes I. Again parks and rec thank you for all you do appreciate you. Okay next thing up is we got planning commission business public hearings. Consideration of parcel additions. That would be you sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr Chairman members of board. We there were. This is an additions or three additions as you pointed out Mr. Chairman in the induction to our ag and forest districts basically as you're well aware of last year we by state code every five years we have to update them. We send letters out to the property owners or any districts if they want to stay but we also get folks around the property was here signs will call staff that's to be added and we do have a deadline. But we do have a deadline. But we always is because voluntary program so folks will either miss the deadline in the cases the actions tonight that you're looking at that there was some state planning had that had happened people to come back in the district so that's why you're looking at three districts are looking for a additions Mr Chairman permission I will go ahead and review all three districts if any members would have any questions we can come back and we can take it as a vote if you're pleased with that. I'm good with that. Absolutely. I think Mr. Chairman again the agricultural district of our community or eight act. But how we meeting on December 16th 2025 to review the additions of three agricultural forest districts. And to add to add to those districts planning commission have a public hearing on these additions on their February 4th. 2026 meeting I recommend approval before to the board of supervisors on the districts. And this is the first one we're looking at is the hayfield. Matt. Hayfield agricultural district. The district is looking at the back Creek Magisterial District. Is a total this increase if the update is approved to bring the parcels from 6 to 10 parcels. The number of property owners will increase from two to three and the total acreage increase from 939.90 acres to 10025.54 acres. And if I could direct your attention to the map. This is the outline of the district. That's been added to you. The the the the hayfield district. Kind of give you a circle where it's at its right along the mountain ridge line there. The second district that was reviewed was the redbud agricultural district. It was another update was done. This district is actually located in two of our magisterial districts. It's located in Stonewall district report of it's also located in the redbud magisterial district. There's a couple of parcels along Valley Mill Road. Something will bring the parcels from. 60 to 64. The number of property owners of course will increase from 24 to 28 in a total acres will increase from 1,200 and 1. 43 to 1245.28 acres. Again, this is the outline of the properties are coming in. Rats would be additions. And finally, this is the overall part of that agricultural district. Mm hmm. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. snake happened here. Okay. sir. Well it was another changes to the we could do that. It's not new in the west by the way. Going to be noodles informed at the end that we're going to be learning and Mira Jean's back to you there. And I mean I've been talking to her all. I've just seen a lot about this little bit lately. overview of the properties that are coming in. This is actually our oldest agricultural, Fulham State District was first established in 1980. And of course they're outlined for you. And this is the bigger picture of the district as a whole, which ones are being added. In summary, Mr. Chairman, these districts were presented as a public hearing tonight. The updated districts will increase the total acreage of the Frederick County agricultural districts from 7,617.95 acres to 18,159.65 acres. Again, following the public hearing, staff is seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors on these updated districts. Mr. Chairman, I'll answer any questions you or any the Board may have on the three agricultural forestry district update. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any questions for Mr. Chairman? Looking to the right, looking to the left. No questions, sir. Thank you. Okay, we're gonna do all three as a public hearing. I'll open up the public hearing. Madam Clerk? No one has signed up, Mr. Chairman. All right, no one signed up. Anybody to speak? All right, I don't see anybody coming up to speak. I'll close the public hearing. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I've moved to take in these three districts additional acreage. All right, we got a motion? Second. We got a second. I'll start with Supervisor Oates? Aye. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Atiktik? Aye.Or Levi? Aye.Supervisor Lara? Aye. Supervisor Atitkik? Aye.Supervisor Schmutz? Aye. Brother Ashley fried? Aye. And Mayor Mullin? Dave Goldman? Aye. All right. And the Chair votes aye. We're good to go. Thank you, folks. All right. Now we're up to liaison reports. Supervisor Ou��erdorf? Mr. Chairman and Board members and audience. Supervisor Gouremont and I attended the Planning Commission meeting on February the 8th. Obtained guidance. and destroyed and I i privacy and what we're doing here and where we live now supervisor Minha and others. I Indeed. does. I Anything you want to say yes, I mean, thank you. I had a work session at 530 on phase one zoning ordinance update and also presentation by the Berkeley group. I found that presentation very informational. I don't know, Mr. Supervisor Gourmand, whether you have a comment, but I think the tables are very helpful that that particular phase of zoning working through with the Berkeley group. Then also the meeting followed, the planning commission meeting and the rezoning of Ross Street, which is on the agenda, was covered on that night through public hearing as well. Excellent. That concludes my report. Thank you. Good morning, sir. Supervisor Gourmand. Yes, sir. I had a meeting with our fire and rescue, and that committee is amazing, and I commended them on behalf of the board for their work on the 10-year plan and also for all of the work that they've done in researching their vehicles and all the hard work that went into that. I also asked them to provide this board with a list of the things that they've done in the last 10 years. I'm not sure if you can see that. But I do think that they've done a lot of work in that area, and that they've done a good job of that. You know, they've done a great job. So, I just wanted to make sure that everybody knew that they're not doing it all. I also asked them to provide this board with a list of their firefighter of the year, EMT of the year, volunteer of the year, so that this board may recognize them after they have received those awards. I just think that's an important thing for us to do as a board is to recognize those people in the county that put their lives at risk for us each and every day. Past that, they did brief us on their preparedness for apple blossom and how they're all working together to get to be ready for the year. get to be ready for that influx of people. And again, they just talked about as a committee, the cost of equipment and the potential partnership with us down the road to make all that work out. So that was it, sir. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anybody else for the ESDAR reports? Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Public Safety Committee met, and it's a new committee, and I think everyone was excited about getting things going in the right direction. We were presented with the blue line cameras at the school intersections, not all schools, but three locations. Those are now in a 30-day run. So if you run through there too fast, you're going to get a notice. You don't have to do anything with that. It's just letting you know that 30 days from now, you'll get a ticket for going too fast through the school zones. So I want to make that aware to everybody. It kind of overlays a lot with the Public Safety meeting, also with the firemen and the sheriff's department. But we're getting started again with Mr. Gruden wants the plans with the new fire department, Station 22, and also equipments and so forth. Everyone's working together. It's doing a great job. So we have another meeting coming up next month. The Frederick Water is doing as excellent as it's ever been. It always has. We're working on, as you all know, that we were in a drought at one time, and we still, our water levels are still a little bit low, but they're coming back. Snow helped, rain helps. But the quarries are operating as they should, and things are moving in the right direction. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Anybody else? Okay. I will speak on transportation. Exit 315 bridge resurfacing project is going to be, June, is that right, Mr. Bishop? And during the June, it's going to be a June project. They're going to be working on weekends. They're putting down a new type of surfacing material that's going to require it for it to cure. So we need residents just to be patient because this is badly needed, and we appreciate it. And I'm also going to bring up, during transportation committee, it was brought up about the cameras in the school zones, and they had a, they have been tracking over time. They had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, they had a, during that short period of time. So folks, please slow down. You see the flashing lights, slow down. Okay. That takes care of transportation. Is that doing a good job of covering that part? And then Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission, supervisor, it's getting me if I miss, but I'm just basically going to talk about the broadband. Broadband projects on target, they're moving along, putting in the, the, what they call the middle mile, and marketing will start to come in. So I'm going to talk about that. start in March. You can go online. We have it up on the website for you if you want to get the information. That's the big one. I've had a lot of constituents call and ask about broadband. I'm sure everybody here has, so please go out and check and put in your address and see if you're you're good to go on that. Other than that, anybody else? Okay. Liaison reports are good. Next item up, citizens comments. This is just comments in general. Elizabeth Ehler. Thank you, ma'am. Okay. Deanne Kinney. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good evening. We'll take it. It all works. I fell back. Deanne Kinney from the Gainesboro District. I'm trying to get ahead of the crowd, so I'm gonna talk about budget. Okay. I'm gonna talk about budget. I'm gonna talk about budget. I'm gonna talk about budget. And I'm actually gonna talk about the budget. What I'm gonna say to you is I've watched the budget process for the last four years, and the past decisions of those boards have brought us to where we are today, which is $40 million short. And if anyone has watched those past sessions, we knew it was coming. We could see it coming. Now you all have the tough decisions to make, but what I have seen of this board, and I have watched all of the budget meetings, I haven't been here, but I've watched them, you guys are doing a great job. It is amazing to see what, how civil you're being, what common sense approaches you all are making to this, and it really warms my heart to know that I think we're actually going to be going in the right direction that we've been needed to go in for a long time. Mr. Aiken commented at the last meeting about these tough decisions, have we all met the right initial step for this lead? Our market means that we made decisions, that we're doing good, won't go under loose perfect conditions, make choices that don't necessarily ensure we'll be the best foreign nation ever, insuranly. We need to have strong positions to work for, and we are hoping that we will keep that in mind, Mr. Thank you. Ms. Thank you so much. Ms. Thank you. Ms. Thank you all so much for joining us today. Ms. Yes, thank you for having me and I. Ms.ilot. I think you're working on a plan to move this forward, that this isn't something that we have to tell the school division, the sheriff's department, the nonprofits that you all fund, that every year you got to make a cut. Because every year they have more and more people that they serve. And we can't do that with cuts. They can't provide those services for them. But I think you all are moving in the right direction. And I really do appreciate how being civil you are with one another and how it is problem solving. It isn't just reacting. You're actually making a plan and you're being proactive. And I really appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Cleo Strabakis. Yes, Cleo Strabakis. Name. Sorry. Cleo Strabakis from Winchester City. But neighbors, of course. So I came here tonight to raise some awareness about the local ICE contract with Northwestern Regional Juvenile Detention Center. This body, as I understand it, is in charge of this contract. Sorry. The body that is in charge of this contract is the NRJDC Commission Board. And Frederick County has one appointed person on that board. That I believe is appointed by the Board of Supervisors here. And that person is Sheriff Mel Holland. So this contract that I'm referring to is the last of its kind currently in the country. Where children are brought to our locality and to that jail, often hundreds of miles away from wherever they came from. And there's a lot of things that are wrong with that contract. But what I'm here to do is to ask for your opinion. And I'm here to ask for y'all's help in increasing the transparency around this contract. Just this week, I received an email from the NRJDC Superintendent Aaron Maloney, who told me that the contract has been extended by 30 days. Previous to this, it had been nearly impossible to get many details surrounding the contract. And I've primarily been bringing this up to Winchester City Council. For the last several months, we've got over 2,000 signatures on our petition currently to end the ICE contract. Approximately half of those signatures are coming from Frederick County residents, which I think is great. And so this particular contract is not popular. And as of December, you'll probably know this, Sheriff Mel Holland signed a 287G contract. Which, if you're not familiar with what that means, it basically makes local police work as ICE agents. And so, yeah, they're deputized to function in that way. So given the innumerable instances in which ICE has acted lawlessly violating people's rights under the U.S. Constitution, I know that the people of Frederick County believe in the Constitution. I know y'all do as well. I'm sure they believe in this community. And they want a safe. And they want a safe community without compromising the integrity of our law enforcement officers through an association with this type of agency like ICE. So I'm here tonight to ask this body to stand up for what's right and consider the implications of being associated with these types of initiatives. Whether it's bringing kids here for ICE or corrupting our law enforcement officers by working with ICE because it's not for the good of this community. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. William Kircher. Thank you for the opportunity to speak here. My name is William Kircher. I live in Middletown. Back Creek District, sir. That's your back Creek District? Yes. I am currently a cornerpoint and special advocate for Warren County. Currently, there are 32 judicial districts in Virginia and only 27 or 28 CASA programs exist in these districts. Multiple districts, including Frederick County and Winchester City, do not have a CASA program. There is approximately 3,400 kids that do not have a CASA advocate. The child welfare system is under extraordinary strain. Community sources are stressed to the maximum. Social workers are overburdened. And turning to the other side of the spectrum, there are many children who are under pressure. pockets of children. Children have opened up their pockets of anger. They are turning over quickly. Sadly, changing in mid-case. Attorney case lows are rising. I can attest to this because the case I'm working on, I am on the fifth and sixth social worker, and I have had two guardian items, which are the children's attorney. According to the Virginia Department of the Criminal Services website, 3,430 children were served in the years 2024 to 2025. 1,4sud ладно? 我哪有生過 Sozial手段。 $4,500,000. The cost of volunteers provided advocacy in 2024-2025. And 130,743 volunteer advocate hours were contributed at a value of $4,500,174. Currently there is a bipartisan amendment sponsored by delegates from the state of Wisconsin and the state of Wisconsin and Wisconsin. The budget is $4,500,000. As an FYI, CASA has not had a budget increase since 2008. As I stated above, this means that one out of every two kids that enter the foster care system does not get anybody to advocate for them. The CASA serves as an independent advocate for children in the foster care system. And in some cases, the only constant adult presence while they're in foster care. I request the Board of Supervisors pass a resolution supporting this funded increase in CASA budget. Thank you. Thanks, sir. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Is there anybody else that would like to come forward and speak on the citizens' comments? Yes, sir. I'm going to do it respectful this time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. I'm Brian Neary, a President of the Opecan District. I want to thank Mr. Oates and Mr. Wells for informing me about situations around policing, regional jail and all that stuff. But I want to bring to this Board's attention something that I was only made aware of last night. On February 9th, the town of Romney, Virginia, which is, what, 20, 30 minutes away, 30 minutes if you're not speeding, decided on the issue of whether or not they wanted to deal with ICE. According to the Hampshire Review, their town council voted 4-2 to deny participation with their police in a 280 agreement, which meant that they were losing the $100,000 in vehicles and $7,500 in equipment and performance bonuses for deputies in the quote-unquote successful location of illegal aliens and overall assistance to further ICE's mission to defend the homeland. Right. One town council member was even quoted as saying, I don't want this town to have contact with ICE or even associate with ICE. And I'd like Frederick County to bring that energy over here, too. Even though this is budget season, we're not that strapped that we need to take dirty money from the federal government on this. And again, I want to thank Mr. Oates for bringing it up to Sheriff Mulholland and Mr. Wells for talking to me about how the jails are running and everything. But I would like to remind the Board that, again, I heard that this county, Romney, West Virginia, or Hampshire County voted 80 percent for Donald Trump in 2024. Does anyone want to hazard a guess as to how many people in Frederick County voted? 63 percent. Making us a comparative hotbed of liberalism. But either way, if a community that conservative is going to kick out ICE, I think we should, too. We're not too conservative for that. We're right on track. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anybody else that wants to speak? All right. I'm going to close the citizens' comments. Board of Supervisors, do you have anything you want to bring up before I— Supervisor Gouvernement? Probably some of us will say the same thing, but I wanted to take a moment to beyond thank the staff from last night that worked. I know that they worked in an almost impossible situation to try and create dialogue with the community on the data centers. What Mr. Bohoffer and Mr. Pearson, Mr. Barker, and all those invited guests had to endure was beyond believable to me. I can't thank those guys enough for sticking through it and putting themselves out there and having to listen to people. Having to listen to people yell and scream and call their names. I was embarrassed, and I hope that that kind of situation, our staff is not put in that situation again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anybody else want to speak? Supervisor Oates. Yes, sir. Actually, I didn't get a chance to talk to Sheriff Milne-Holland. He was out of town. I did talk to Major—I think it's Major Hawkins. Major Hawkins. I think it's Major. I don't want to get his rank wrong. Anyway, his—first of all, the Sheriff's Department's constitutional office, the Board has no say, I guess, in the contract that the Sheriff enters into. That's his domain, so we didn't get a vote on it. It's not our purview. The Sheriff's Department's policy is they cooperate with all federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies. They don't discriminate from one to the other. So that's their position. So just wanted to pass that on. I asked, and that was the information I was given. Thanks, sir. Thank you. Regarding last night, I want to make—I'm watching some of the statements that were being made, and I want folks to know that you actually had five supervisors attend that meeting. We were all in the back. We were all watching. And under the circumstances, our staff did a fabulous job. You know, Mr. Walhoffer, Mr. Pearson, Mr. Barker, and to all the speakers that did speak, we greatly appreciate it. With that said, I'm going to bring this forward for the supervisors to take into consideration. Following last night's community outreach meeting regarding data centers, we took note of citizen feedback during and after the meeting regarding the meeting format and process, and would like to work on improving the process. In addition, there were several questions raised regarding noise and health impacts, which that expertise was missing from the panel. And going through the submitted questions, there is additional information and expertise that we would like to secure for the next meeting. Staff would like to postpone the second community meeting scheduled for February 26, 2026, at James Wood High in order to revise the meeting format and try to secure additional expertise to answer the noise and health-related questions raised during the first meeting. Board, I'd like to see that in the next meeting. Thank you. I'd like to see that. If we're all in agreement, I think that's a smart thing to do. How do you want to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I would agree with what you read there. And I would make a motion that the Board accept the idea of canceling the next meeting for the purpose of doing more research and setting things up in a better method. And also gives us an opportunity to get more citizen involvement. But prior to having these meetings, so we know exactly what they would like to hear. All right. We got a motion. So is the motion. I don't want to get into semantics here, but you said postpone. He said cancel. Yeah, we've got it right now as postpone. I would say postpone it indefinitely. Yeah, there you go. Indefinitely until what time we can get this done. Thank you. Postpone indefinitely. Do I have a second? I second that. All right. Can I do a voice on this? All those in favor? Yes, sir. I'm sorry. Any questions? Yeah, I realize you had the meeting on the southern part of the county, but quite a few people in my district were looking forward to tomorrow night's so they could get the information. So open-endedly postponing, I'm not in favor of if we want to put it off for a couple of weeks, but I think both ends of the county need to have access to that information. Hopefully, my constituents will be a little more polite and well-mannered. But I think it's important that all the citizens get this information. So I'm not in favor of postponing indefinitely. I'd rather see it as whether it's two weeks, one month, but have something in there to where we get back and have the one at Jameswood. Well, how about we do this? How about we revisit this a month from now? So, and then we can make a determination of what would be a good, when would be appropriate to schedule. Would that be appropriate for you? Yeah, I'll be fine if it comes back with me. I'll be fine if it comes back within a month, but I do want to see it happen at Jameswood. So like I said, the northern end of the county has its chance. Mr. Chairman, I would remove the indefinitely and place it in there one month. Okay. So we'll revisit in a month and see what works for the staff regarding doing this. I'm good with that, but you know, I'm hoping you're, this side, that side, it's going to be a little nicer than what it was last night because it was tough. And I think, you know, I can go down this rabbit hole. I just, you know, I ran on civility and common sense and that's all I'm looking for. We can all do this. We can all work through this. We're all grownups and individuals, but doggone civil and common sense. Be nice about it. So, all right. Yes, sir. I think last night, I mean, to piggyback a little bit on what Mike said, I mean, but there was no respect last night. And we can all have different opinions. We can all, we can agree to disagree respectfully. And that wasn't within our community and that's not who we are. And I would just, I'd charge staff to try to figure out a way if there's anything that we can do to craft the meeting structure because they tried their best. And unfortunately, we were overrun by, I'll call it an angry mob. I mean, it was. It was ugly. And we don't need to be that as a county. And the, I know I had some conversations with Mike personally trying to be like, hey, you know, you did a great job. Let's just all brainstorm what we can do to make it better. Because the whole staff, everybody that was there, they shouldn't have gone through what they did. And I can understand the concern about going through it again. And I'll piggyback on that. I went through all the panels, each representative, and I apologize on behalf of the county because that's not who we are. That's not, that was not our face. That's not who we are. You know, I mean, I've just experienced how wonderful this community is and the love you feel for this community. So that's how it should be. So. I think it should be advertised a lot better and clearer as to what it is, that it's there to provide information to the citizens. We're not endorsing data centers. We're not saying anything of the sort. We're just giving the public information. It's not a two-way conversation. It's just to give information to the county or from the county to the citizens. Because I did ask the phone calls. I didn't attend Sharanda because wrong in the county for me. I was planning on being at James Wood. But it's, I had people call that said that they were there to learn. They wanted to hear what was going on. And I guess the acoustics isn't there. They're not there. They're not sitting there. They weren't that great because they couldn't hear anything. They ended up leaving early as the crowd got out of control and they're disappointed. So there are citizens that are interested in hearing what is going to be presented. And I think they should have a chance to hear it. Yeah. Yes, sir. So, yes, sir, Supervisor, which I agree with you. As I was leaving, I know the chairman had the same thing. There were a number of people who came up to me and said, what a shame. I came here to learn. I came here to see what's going on. I came here to see what's going on. And a very small percentage of the people that were there were fully prepared and ready. They were standing outside the door. They already knew what they were going to do. They already were prepared to disrupt the meeting. And they did so. I don't know how you control that. You know, it's a sad situation on our community that people do that. But it will happen. It will happen at yours also. It's—you have good people in your community. But you have people outside or in your community who are disruptors. And they just disrupt for the heck of disrupting. And it's sad, because the people who were there with good intent and the people who are in our department and from the power companies and so forth came and gave us their time to try to talk through this thing and weren't given that opportunity. So, shame on us. Shame on us as a community. We need to do better. And any help the community can give when you're in those situations, I think you need to let people know you're not appreciated for doing that kind of thing. Sometimes we sit back quietly and don't say anything. But when somebody is disrupted in a meeting, you have the opportunity to say, you know what? This is my county. Don't do that in my county. So, thank you very much. Yes, sir. Anybody else? All right. So, vote that we will bring this back up a month from now and talk to staff, right? Everybody agree? All those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? There we go. Thank you very much. Anything else? Sorry. Anything else regarding Board of Supervisors' comments? Okay. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Vice Chair. I move we adjourn. We're adjourned. Thank you, sir. That's good. All right. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
