Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2020-08-05
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=57
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next item on our agenda is adoption of the agenda. If there's no changes to that. So approved. Second. I'm a motion to approve and one to second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Agenda is approved as stated, written. The next item on our is the minutes from our June 3, 2020 meeting. There's no changes. If anybody's read those meeting minutes, if there's no changes, I'll motion for adoption. I move. Second. I'm going to motion and a second. All those in favor of adoption of the June 3 meeting minutes? Say aye. Aye. Those are approved. Moving right along. Committee reports. I'll start down on my far right with the CPPC. Mr. Rhodes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Comprehension Plans and Program Committee met on Monday, July the 13th. We had one request, a comprehensive plan amendment, request, the only one we did receive this year as of the deadline. And that CPPA was for Waverly Farms and the Surum Water Service District expansion request. This is the request to expand the boundary of our Surum Water Service area to include 145.5 acres. And this site currently contains 51.36 acres of land. Mr. Rhodes. The Comprehension Plans and Program Committee met on Monday, July the 13th. The Comprehension Plans and Program Committee met on Monday, July the 13th. again. The Comprehension Plans and Program Committee met on Monday, July the 13th. As of the deadline, we have no feedback. We do refer back to the prior meeting. This is the request to expand the boundary of our Surum Water Service area to include 15.1 acres. And seek to expand the rest of the acreage of the farm, of this particular site, to include the surrounding acreage. So actually, the Swazza line right now splits the site up, not in the middle, but splits up through it. And the request is to kind of try to move the Swazza line to the water. boundary property line so that the whole thing would be in the swaza. CPP recommended was for a further study as requested in the application. We recommend sending requests forward for further study as an individual amendment. And however, the CPP remains supportive of the large land use study as initiated the entire Northeast land use plan that examines the land use transportation and utilities available. And this topic will come up at our joint work session which is Wednesday, August the 12th, and we will be discussing this topic further. That concludes my report. Thank you Mr. Marston. Next item is Transportation Committee. Mr. Oates. The final item was county update on some various projects and the road going over 81 just south of the Route 50 bridge. is ahead of schedule but should be completed before next year at this time hopefully. Thanks sir. Moving right down my list there's no others except for the Winchester Planning Commission. The liaison could not be with us tonight but he did send out I take it we have that copy to all of our commissioners or just did it just come to me? If not they had five items on their agenda. They had an ordinance to rezone 1.96 acres of land at 1811 Robert Street for Highway Commercial District, Highway Commercial District with PUD overlay. They had a request from Pannoni Associates for our CUP for conversion of existing ground floor to non-residential use to residential use at 326 North Cameron Street. They had a request of Easterly Schneider and Associates on behalf of O'Reilly Auto Parts for a CUP to modify east elevation of the building concealing a flat roof. They had an ordinance for the renovation of the ground floor to the flat roof. They had an ordinance for the renovation of the ground floor to the flat roof. They had an ordinance for the to vacate 50 see 5,974 square feet portion of East Fairfax Lane public right-of-way. It's just situated at North Cameron Street and last but not least they had a request of Fultz Land Survey and on behalf of Key Properties for a waiver of off street parking for vehicles on 2175 Harvest Drive. So they were busy as a Planning Commission. So that's it for their liaison report and I take it Mr. Graber has no report tonight but we appreciate him being with us and thank you for being here. The next item on our agenda is citizen comments. So a portion of our meeting agenda that you citizen come forward speak to us for anything that's not on the agenda tonight. Feel free to come forward with any concerns or thoughts you may have. Seeing no one rushing up to the front just yet I'll close the citizen comments and we'll move on to our first public hearing item. Thank You Mr. Oates. This is a regional zoning number 02-20 for the Pippin Industrial Park and I believe it's being presented by Ms. Perkins. Thank you. Thank You Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. As you stated this is a request for a rezoning for 19 point acres from the RA rural areas district to the B3 industrial transition district with proffers. Now subject property is located on the western side of Valley Pike. It is adjacent to the business which is Apple Land Sports and I would note that the property is shown on the screen to your left. You have Route 11 in this location the subject property is this area in blue and then towards the bottom of the screen you can see Apple Land. Now I would note that the site is located within the limits of the Kernstown area plan of the 2035 comprehensive plan. The site is also within sewer water service area. Now the competence of plan is what provides the guiding the guidance for future land-use decisions on the properties that are contained in the plan. Now within the Kernstown area plan the site is identified within the Bartonsville south area. In times of real loss of area糔 Nosal Micro setzt in Deepwater, Tuler Sono, T Cond купa Great defense Fr. health affliction health andcost to the are case of cell growth medicine safety skills honors Los Angeles individuals for Vivy Richard t la미 South toute d сыn art,aye panellist 181 at Whitebonnet 2020 at Wesslow Park State Bridge grand-p Some of this has to be taken up within the additional work within this Augustan Park system, area. The site is identified with a future general commercial land use and then also in that land use plan, let's see, I'm sorry, I'll actually flip to the kind of blow-up of the Kernstown area plan that shows again the subject property and you can see the orange color is the future commercial land use and then adjacent to that property and across the street that the site in brown is what's known as the historic Bartonsville area. As I stated there's a number of points that the comprehensive plan points out for this for the area that this property is located in. As I stated first was general commercial land use and there's also a number of texts regarding corridor enhancements. Within the comprehensive plan, the Kernstown area plan really acknowledges that section of Valley Pike and the pristine rural nature of it. So with that in keeping to try to maintain that going forward, the comprehensive plan does call for enhanced buffers such as distances, plantings, pedestrian accommodations to eventually get more towards a corridor like appearance. So to make sure that the area is not a residential area, the proposed zoning is required by the proposed zoning ordinance. Now as I stated the proposed rezoning is requesting the B3 industrial transition zoning and following up the land use calls for that general commercial. Now with the B3 zoning district in the zoning ordinance the legislature did state it as required to bill if the payment was effective. So this underline coordinates that the state has purchasedbles from four pre Hawaiians that are sorry had collected $6,300 for their land use계al consumers, as COVID-19illon is listed second B3 the N realmente la l microb functions fot bases for these summeraln ures çup nearby yonque nul And as I stated, the Kernstown Area Plan does call for corridor enhancements along this area. So the proffers that the applicant is proposing to meet that policy, they are not constructing any parking or outdoor storage or building within 50 feet of the right-of-way, Route 11. That area, that 50 feet, is intended to remain open and only used for landscaping or underground utilities or other things that may be acceptable within buffers. They are also proffering to construct a six-foot berm, which would be covered in grass, and they are also proposing shade trees that would be planted every 40 feet. There's also a proffer that they will only construct one freestanding business sign along 11. For the transportation proffers that they're proposed with. The application, first, they are limiting the number of trips per day to 646. That would be determined at the site plan stage for each project. They are constructing a two-lane rural collector road, which is shown on the GDP and the comprehensive plan. That road is to be completed in phases, and each phase would be completed to the proposed entrance of each building prior to the issuance of a CO. The road should be designed for rolling terrain. For a traffic count of 1475 vehicle trips per day for future growth. There's minimum radii and VDOT standards. Final design to be approved by VDOT. It would go to the Western Property Line. And Pippin Lane, it would be the only entrance allowed onto Route 11. They're also dedicating a 20-foot strip of area along Route 11, which would be for future expansions. And for a five-foot sidewalk and road improvements, and that would be dedicated prior to the first CO. There's also a 50-foot reserve right away through the development, shown on the GDP for Pippin Lane. And again, shown on the comprehensive plan, and that would be dedicated prior to, or if the county does request that, within 90 days. And then this is a generalized development plan that's included in your agenda. It's kind of a different layout from what you saw on the location maps. You have Route 11, and then you have that internal road that would be constructed to the rear property. Also included in that rezoning, there's a fire and rescue contribution of ten cents per building square-foot, and then there's also a proffer regarding sanitary sewer and text regarding drain field. Perfect. Thanks for listening. See you tomorrow. Bye. Bye. And I kind of just wanted to call out, it was also shown in the staff report that the comprehensive plan does call for properties that are in the swaths to connect to public sewer, as well as the subdivision design plan also calls for development to connect into public water and sewer if it's available. So I would note that currently county policy does not allow this development. Should it go to a commercial designation to use drain fields, it would have to connect into public water and sewer. So I know that was probably a lot of back and forth with the comp plan and the proffers. So just to kind of summarize some of those key items when you're looking at this rezoning in conformance with the comprehensive plan. As I stated, it's a B3 rezoning request. The plan does call for general commercial land uses. The plan in the corridor enhancements does that proffer for the 50-foot green area as well as the 6-foot berm and the one tree per 40 feet. Corridor enhancements does that meet the goal of the comprehensive plan. And then the planned Pippin Lane identified is that laid out and proffered in a way that it could be expanded in a way in the future should that become the Stephen City bypass shown on the comprehensive plan. So with that, I can answer any questions that you may have. I would note that Mr. Tim Stowe is here on behalf of the application. Questions for Ms. Perkins? I've got to remember to look everywhere. That one for Mr. Jewell over here. I just want to confirm. The comprehensive plan calls for possibly a four-lane road through there. That's correct? I mean, I know he's putting a two-lane road and he's allowing the buffer for the expansion of four lanes. But that is what the comprehensive plan calls for, correct? Correct. This is kind of the snapshot from the comprehensive plan. Oh. Currently, with the application, they're showing an internal roadway that goes in this location. As you can see on the comp plan, the road is shifted a little. It's really meant to ensure that what they're calling Pippin Lane and a collector road could meet the future. That was a question, so I want to make sure we're putting it out there. So, you know, they're allowing if, in fact, it has to go four lanes, they're allowing for that. There's right away. And then the water-sewer part. Yes. Are they going to connect to water and sewer or are they not going? They're going to connect to water and sewer. Okay. So, those were the questions I think we had. So, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Jewell. Anyone else? Thank you. If the applicant would like to, as representative, come forward, Mr. Stowe. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Commissioners, for the opportunity to be here with you tonight. This project is one of success. Many of you know that Gregory's has been in downtown Stephen City since Moby Dick was a minnow. And the company's growing. Mr. Gregory's. His children are working there diligently and doing a good job. And he needs to move out of Stephen City to have some more room. And this is the opportunity for him to do that. There were four things that were brought up by Ms. Perkins through communications that we've had over the last several weeks. And I want to address each of those here now. The first is the one Mr. Jewell just brought up, and that deals with the right-of-way. As the comprehensive plan shows, the road, Pippin Lane, is not what's formally known as, or informally known as, the Stephen City bypass. It's actually north of that. We were proposing a 50-foot right-of-way, a fee-simple right-of-way, to be dedicated with the two-lane road. What we're willing to do, and what we've communicated to staff as recently as this afternoon, is we'll reserve 15 feet on either side of that road for a total of 80 feet, where it could be expanded to a four-lane road, should a comprehensive plan be updated. And this ended up being the other way. So, we're going to have to make sure that we have the right alignment for that ultimate Stephen City bypass. The buffer along Route 11 is one that we've gone back and forth on. If you read some of the information from VDOT, you saw where they had some concerns about the 150-foot natural buffer that we proposed initially, because we felt like Valley Pike needed a 150-foot natural buffer. In the HRAB meeting, there was some discussion about going to a 50-foot buffer, and putting an earthen berm in, and then planting the trees at the prescribed distances. We felt like that was not as natural-looking as the 150-foot, and letting it grow naturally. We're open to either one. We have no preference. The current proffer before you contains the earthen berm and the landscaping that evolved out of the HRAB meeting. But again, we're willing to do either. We think there's some distinct advantages to the 150-foot buffer. The drain field is a little bit different. It's a little bit more of a vertical buffer. The drain field is a little bit more of a vertical buffer. The drain field is a little bit more of a vertical buffer. The drain field is a little bit more of a vertical buffer. The drain field is a little bit more of a vertical buffer. We're willing to get rid of that. There are some sewer capacity limitations down that way in the sewer system that need to be solved, but we can work with it, and we can eliminate that proffer. Finally, we've seen some of the correspondence from the neighbors who are concerned about the project. They're concerned an industrial park is going to show up in their neighborhood. That's just not the purpose of the B3 zoning, but Mr. Gregory doesn't want... Mr. Gregory doesn't want to create that image. The B3 zoning is what would allow his business to occur there. B1, B2 would not allow his business to occur there, not even under a conditional use permit. So B3 is his only option for his business. But what he is willing to do to try to allay some of the concerns is limit the size of the buildings to 35,000 square feet. So there'll be small buildings. The office warehouse types of uses that Ms. Perkins mentioned, and there'll be small buildings. And there'll be small buildings. And there'll be small buildings. And there'll be much smaller buildings than would be allowed normally in the B3 zoning with that proffer limitation. So those are the points that we were aware of that we've worked through with staff. Those are the resolutions that we would propose, and I'll be glad to answer any questions that I might be able to for you. Questions for Mr. Stowe. Mr. Thomas? Would there be a lot of outside storage? There could be some in the B3, but the intent is to keep as much of it in the warehousing as possible. Mr. Stowe? The reason I asked that was because some of the documents say construction material storage. And when I see construction material, it's usually stacked outside. Large earth movers, graders, dozers, that kind of thing that would be outside. So none of that would be on the site. Well, the business that Gregory's is in is one of home improvements, so they don't have that type of equipment in their repertoire. in their repertoire. But in the future, if they sold it, someone else could put that on the site? I would have to look at the zoning. I know there has to be opaque fencing when you do that sort of thing, so it's not visible, but I don't know that that's allowed in the B3 zoning. I might defer to Mr. Sharon on that, because I just don't know. Other questions? Mr. Stowe, would you again explain to me when you're talking about a 150-foot buffer or a six-foot berm with trees on top, you're losing me here. When you say 150-foot buffer, you're talking about from the road 150 feet back. I don't understand what you're saying here. Right. What we're talking about is from the right-of-way line of Route 11, on the side where this property is, is moving into the property 150 feet and leaving that in a natural state so that it grows up and it provides a natural vegetative buffer. I missed a natural state. Yes, sir. Yes. Mr. Morrison? You stated in the application no intended purposes for this, but then tonight you're saying this is intended by the Gregory family for expansion of their business. Is that somehow tied down, or could they approve this and then it immediately go to something else? The business expansion is what he is putting this forward to accomplish. That's his motive. Mr. Stowe, he wouldn't be the sole tenant, or he wouldn't be the sole user, because I've seen, and there's one slide in here, I believe, that there is more. There's multiple buildings. There could be other buildings in the future. That is correct, Mr. Kenney. But they would still fall under the same... Correct. The same code. They would be subject to the limitations of the zoning, of the site plans, of the proffers that come through this project. I guess I'd have to ask the question, would he be the owner of those buildings and he would do this, be a leaseback type of situation? Is that, or would he, could they subdivide these parcels in the future and sell these buildings? I do not know what his business model is. At this point, he would own, he would own everything that's there, but I don't know if that's his plan going forward. Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Moe. Just a couple. You mentioned trying to limit, to address some of the community concerns about industrial uses or heavy commercial in that location. You mentioned the floor area limitation. Are you also considering, or has there been any discussion about limiting heights of buildings to address, you know, some of the massing concerns that folks might have? And the buffering's going to make, you know, some difference, but, you know, based on the topography and the way everything is out there, it's a possibility that, you know, if you could limit the square footage, but, you know, the heights themselves by ordinance could be, you know, a fairly significant impact. Is that something that's been discussed? It has not. And as you're, as you just alluded, the zoning ordinance limits the height of the buildings in each of the zoning districts, but that has not been discussed. So it would, if approved, could develop to the, to the maximum height allowed by the ordinance? In accordance with the zoning ordinance, correct. And just to clarify, to follow up on Mr. Thomas's question, so there's no proffered limitation on outdoor storage? There is not, no. Okay. Thanks. Anyone else? Mr. Joe. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. One of the concerns that several of the residents have brought up is the runoff with the property going down. Obviously, is there any, besides the runoff, is there any indication that, you know, of trees or anything, a buffer along the property from where the residential side is? Yes. The zoning ordinance requires, because we're going to be a B3 and what's adjacent to us to the north is RA, there is a requirement in the zoning ordinance for, for spacing there. There's also a stormwater management area, I believe, was identified on the development plan that was shown in the project. So, so there should, in theory, there shouldn't be an increase in runoff coming off of this property after it's developed because we're required by law to manage that stormwater. Okay. Thank you. Anyone else? Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. It is time to go. This is a public hearing. I open a public hearing. Anyone that would like to speak for or against this application, please come to the podium, state your name, your match, your district, and try to limit your comments to three minutes. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm Bob Plater. My wife and I just live about 150 yards north of this site. We're right at the Opecan. The road comes down to us from Ralph Gregory's, goes back up towards Winchester. I sent you all a letter. Which I won't waste your time reading again. I talked to Ralph last night and I've got a few questions I don't know the answers to. So I'm asking this out of concern. Number one, I talked to Ralph last night and he is building warehouse storage buildings there. This is the first time I've heard he was going to occupy one, but that's fine. But he's going to be renting to other buildings that trucks will come and go and load and unload and break block terminal type things. Which is a bit of a concern. I talked a couple issues that come up that I read through this thing real quickly today. I talked to Ron today also. Ron's with Pannoni and he's working with the county on closing down Springdale Road, which we like because Springdale Road ends right in front of our house. So everybody comes that way, the lights shine on our house and they turn and if it's a truck it's got to go up the grade, which is a concern too. The concern that I have is Ron says that when Springdale Road is closed there will be a cul-de-sac on the east side of the road track and that that cul-de-sac he's agreed to tie that into Ralph Gregory's land. So if that happens my concern is that trucks coming out of Ralph Gregory's terminals and warehousing coming and going are going to come out on Springdale Road and come right in front of our house and depends on the hours they operate. I have no desire to have trucks 24 hours a day. Shining lights in front of our house and then having to take that grade. All that traffic will go towards Winchester because they won't go on 81. So I'd like to have some assurance that that cul-de-sac is not going to be used for all of this truck traffic. He's obviously building Pippin Road on top, which could accommodate that. But Pannoni did say that that cul-de-sac is going to tie into this complex and I would be not very happy with trucks, particularly all during the night coming on Springdale Road. Secondly, when I read this thing originally, it says that he was going to consider on-site septic. And I understand that type of thing. I've been around properties like that before. I've owned next to those properties before. There's some mention that the Parkins Mill site cannot handle some of this capacity. So that's a concern. Also, they said the roads are being designed for a maximum traffic count of 1,475 vehicles per day. Tim, who I know very well, by the way, has estimated 646 vehicles per day. A lot of those will be trucks. Our company operates a little High Point truck stop in Stephen City and it's a very small little truck stop and our vehicles count as 100 vehicles per day and almost two-thirds of those are cars. So when you get into 600 numbers, that's quite a substantial traffic count. They talked about how long the Gregory's have been in Winchester. I know how long they've been there because I was born and raised in Winchester also. My first job at 12 years of age was working with Ralph Gregory's dad. I don't think 12-year-olds can do that today but back in those days, nobody cared. The two things, and I've been on both commercial and residential development side of this thing, the things that I normally have to do is to do an architectural rendering of what the site's going to look like. So I really don't know who, what impact this is going to have visually, or what it's going to look like on the road. And again, it's right up from our house. And I normally have to do an economic impact study, environmental impact study, environmental, showing, again, what effect a development's going to have on the adjacent property owners. So I've been asked to do that quite a few times, both in this county and many others. And I have not seen any architectural renderings on this, nor have I seen any economic impact studies. So, I don't know if we ought to at least consider having that done, so we'll have some detail as to what's being asked to go into the site. I don't wish Ralph any bad omens. I'm not against this in particular, but I'd like to know what we're going to be accepting. B3 is a pretty substantial heavy zoning at Tribal M1, which is manufacturing. And Ralph's a little older than I am, but he's not going to be around forever, nor am I. And we don't know who's going to own that site in the future. I think Ralph will probably be a good neighbor, but we don't know what the future's going to bring. So, I'd like to know what this thing's going to look like and how it's going to affect the surrounding area through some kind of a study. So, I'd ask that you all table it at least to get some more information, both for yourself and for the neighborhood. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Anyone else like to come forward? My name is Gerald Wakefield, and my wife, Clara Ebersole Petrie Wakefield, and I own and live on the Ebersole Petrie historical property at 4330 Valley Pike, just north of the proposed Pippin Industrial Park. He's titling that the Industrial Park. And we are in Back Creek Magisterial District. Our daughter and son-in-law and her grandchildren live in the Ebersole Petrie Farmhouse just across the driveway, built after the Civil War. So, my wife's family has been here over 150 years. My grandchildren and my daughter are the fifth and sixth generations of family that have lived in this house. Ralph and his family have become reasonable neighbors over the past few years, and we understand his efforts to make money and to develop the neighborhood. However, we and several of our neighbors do not agree that building an industrial park is the right decision for this particular location. Martinsville is an agricultural, residential, and historical neighborhood. It is one of Frederick County's prime historic areas with a large number of buildings in excellent condition and other landmarks dating back to the Civil War and even to the beginning of our country. It is in the H.A. Historic Area Overlay Zone, which is intended to protect, enhance, and aid in the perpetuation of especially noteworthy examples and elements of Frederick County's history. The Kernstown Area Plan under Martinsville South title states that, as they pointed out, general commercial land uses are envisioned in this area in the future. General commercial would include Zone B1 neighborhood business, and B2 general business as general commercial, but not B3 industrial transition, heavy commercial activities and a mixture of automobile and truck traffic. And by the way, although they mentioned how many total vehicles per day they expect, I don't think they mentioned accurately at least how many trucks are going to be involved in that number. And they certainly can't use the number that they draw from the surveys that they've done. B3 does not fit into the Kernstown Area Plan for Martinsville and Martinsville South, and therefore, this rezoning request should be denied or at a minimum tabled until an economic impact study is completed. And perhaps even a more detailed environmental impact study, when you put a lot of pavement on a hill and drive a lot of heavy diesel trucks on it, and diesel and gas and rubber from the tires are going to be washed down the hill, and by the way, it's not going to be going east of that site, it's going to be going north of that site into the Opecan Creek and across my driveway. If we're not going to stick with our well-thought-out, vetted, and approved plans, then why even have a planning department and zoning? We just let landowners develop whatever they want, and regardless of what it does to the community. I wish Ralph success in finding a more reasonable way to make his land profitable, but we are concerned that this rezoning and development will be detrimental to the important historical neighborhood of Bartonsville. I would also point out that, well, I've already mentioned the fact that the runoff, where the runoff is. So please take this into consideration, these comments, as you make your decision. And if it's appropriate, if not, just tell me so. My nephew, who owns the two parcels just north of that yellow line, my land is above that. All of it is a part of the old Petrie estate. He lives out in California, and he submitted his comments in writing a little bit late today. And I know you've got the copies of them, but he's asked if it's appropriate that I could read it to you. The audience, at least, so that they can hear the comments as well. It's very short. Due to the constraints of time, I'll forego reading that tonight. Do we all have copies of that? We all received copies of that. We'll be fine. So appreciate it. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Good evening. My name is Matthew Schaefer, and I'm here on behalf of my family, my wife, Julie, my son, Sam, who's seven. We have a daughter, Cece, who's five, and a daughter, Ruby, who's three. We live right across Route 11 from Mr. and Mrs. Claytor in one of the original Height Homes that's right beside Springdale Mill. And I understand Mr. Gregory's request. I've read all the documents that were posted, and I have to agree with my neighbors. We're actually a community that's been around for a long time in the Bartonsville area. My great, great grandparents lived in the White Clapboard House, which is right beside our current house, and my great Uncle J.I. milled that mill from 1923 until 1981. So I have a distinct appreciation for this particular area. I brought my family here back to the Valley to raise them in this type of community. And then I see that, you know, we want to, or there's been a request to rezone the 19 acres that we're discussing into a B3 district, which according to your own staff report includes heavy intensive uses. And I'm not only concerned that the rezoning will change the historical character of our neighborhood, but it will also lead to the inundation of heavy equipment, tractor trailers, construction support equipment, and then the associated noise and site pollution. You know, and to touch on what Mr. Wakefield said, we spent significant time about five years ago going through a study about whether we want to lay the historical area over Bartonsville. Everyone agreed that it was something that was in the best interest of the county and it was in the best interest of the citizens. So in reading, which I put in my letter to you guys, I won't read tonight, but reading the five goals of historical area overlay zone and a heavy industrial park does not help meet or achieve any of those goals. So I can't imagine how putting an industrial park abutting and adjacent to historical area could help preserve the historical character of that neighborhood. Further, to touch on the what's the map right up there, you'll see all of the land that is there in the orange yellow is owned by Mr. Gregory, including the 60-acre parcel just to the west. So I could see in the future, well, we zone this B3. Well, let's just go ahead and put a request in a couple years to zone the next one B3 and then that little one down there, B3. And next thing you know, you've got a hundred-acre industrial park right adjacent to a historical area. And then to build on top of that, the request that they're putting through the county right now to extend a road into the industrial park from the end of Springdale Road, you have 646 cars. Maybe you have 1575 vehicles, some are cars, some are heavy construction equipment. Let's just say 10% of those vehicles decide to use the back exit, we'll call it, and come down Springdale Road past seven different houses, seven different families, seven different kids, seven different dogs right there coming down Springdale Road. But I ask you guys to actually go and drive the road before you make a decision because that map doesn't do it justice. You know, prior to the dam bursting, that was an entire, you know, the mill pond was there, but so the road was built around the mill pond. So you're talking about an aggressive S-turn and an almost 90-degree hairpin turn on that road. Right now, the FedEx trucks like to come down that road, at least once a day, and at least once a month, I see a heavy wrecker headed up there to pull somebody off one of the S-turns or off the hairpin turn or off the railroad tracks. So, you know, I like to think of the second and third order effects of what this particular request is going to achieve. It's not just 19 acres. It could be a domino effect to 100 acres and 1500 cars, 1500 trucks coming down Springdale Road, which is right through the heart of our community. So, I would ask you guys to, like I said, to take a trip down Springdale and pretend you live there. And if that, would you want this type of industrial park to be in your backyard? Thanks for your time. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Well, I got two stand up at the same time, but I missed. Come on, ma'am. I'll catch you next, sir. Hi, my name is Stacy Rau, and I'm here with my husband Michael Rau. We own the properties at 115 and 117 Springdale Road. So, majority of our property is right there on the road frontage of Springdale. We already have to deal with the traffic that has been going through now and the dangers, and we have to watch our children when we're out there to make sure that they're not even just anywhere near the road at this point. I did submit a letter, and I'm not going to reiterate everything that I did because of time, but I wanted to hit a couple points here. A while back ago, I did spend a couple hours with Mr. and Mrs. Gregory, and I explained to them how we were actively doing a floodplain study on the Springdale property where the mill is and where the 100 year floodplain. The reason for this is that we were looking to build a residential home on the backside of the parcel. When Mr. Gregory had one of his residential homes burned to the ground from the renters, we had gone to him directly and asked if he would be willing to sell approximately two acres to where we could build a house there and then not have to worry about trying to deal with the complexities of the flood study. His exact words to me first was he was hoping to put in a water park, and I said, okay, like Great Wolf Lodge. And he had already tried to reach out to them. And I said, well, that was very interesting. And then he told me that it would not be in my interest to build a home on my property because I would just have to be looking at an industrial park. So those were his exact words to me. And so, you know, I talked to him about easement rights because we both share the right of way into the Springdale roads. And, you know, he just said, you know, we don't think we're interested in this time. You can maybe talk to us later. But we really have full plans to have storage buildings back there. And it's not going to be fun to look at if you're trying to build a home back there. So you might want to look at another place to build. And, you know, pretty much shut me down right then and there. And I appreciate, you know, what he's trying to do for himself and his family. And I'm not trying to diminish that in any way. But I'm also not trying to diminish what I would like to do and what my husband would like to do for our family. And that is to be able to utilize our property, allow our children to go play down at the Opecan Creek. A couple of weeks ago, they found a Civil War boot in the Opecan Creek, just playing in it. And it is something that we go enjoy on a regular basis. And we've enjoyed with Schaefer and his family. And, you know, they enjoy coming down to the creek with their children. And we do keep with the road, the house in front. We have family there. And we've also been meeting with Peony Engineering regarding the cul-de-sac that's going to be put onto our property. We had asked why was our property the only one chosen for the cul-de-sac and not Gregory's as well. But he, so the cul-de-sac is completely going on our property. And, but, Mr. Gregory would have the right away allowability to the cul-de-sac. And, we are still in communication with the county and with VDOT regarding the size of the cul-de-sac. But they said the reason, the necessity of the cul-de-sac for dead ending is for school buses because of all the school children on Springdale Road. And that's why we have to have that there. And that was from Ron at Peony Engineering. And, they have to be able to, and VDOT has to be able to be able to turn their trucks around and the school bus around. That was the main debate. So, I can't imagine giving right away access to Mr. Gregory to allow more industrial vehicles to transfer through to this cul-de-sac that is the biggest concern for the county and for VDOT to allow for the school bus. I understand that the initial rezoning does not include that back parcel, but I know that he, Pippin Enterprises, owns 155 plus acres out there. And, I know what Mr. Gregory has said to me personally. And, you know, his comments to me had always been concerning, but due to the massive proffers and due to the fact that there is already an industrial park on Shady Elm that has not been fully utilized at this point and is still majorly underdeveloped, why we would just spot drop an industrial park in an agricultural area. This is historical land. This is beautiful land. We are as, we've only owned the property since 2015, but our long-term goals is to retire there, to be able to, you know, restore the history. And, we've worked closely with the family members, and we've even, you know, had many talks with Schaefer and his family about preserving the life and the history of the Shady Elm and the Shady Elm and the Shady Elm and the Martinsville area. So, we just hope you take into serious consideration of what impact this zoning is going to have long-term on this community. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Anyone else? Sir? I see you in the back. Yes, sir, you? Yes. Hi, my name is Lance Moss. I'm at Barton Park Park. I'm at Barton Park. I'm at the Barton Park Park Park. I'm at 4527 bottom right there. I just wanted to chime in a couple pragmatic things. Take notes. So, everybody's Springdale Road, you can't have trucks on Springdale Road. You've all been on that road, right? I jog it. I actually got ready for a marathon and then they cancel it because of COVID. But anyway, there's also an entrance right now, like a gravel road from the Pippin Road. So, if you want to get to the Pippin Road, you can do that. It's a great idea. But I don't think you should be driving on the Pippin Road. So, I think that's a great idea. So, I hope that makes sense because that would be that would definitely affect me because that parking lot comes right in front of me. No big deal. Just something I would like to just put on record that it would be really you should just confine this to the Pippin Road. If this has to happen, it should just be Pippin Road. There shouldn't be a way out of that. Also, can anybody answer the question, does B3 have hours? Does it have operating hours? Is it 24-7? They don't typically answer public hearing questions like that, but if we can answer that. It would be a bummer if it was 24-7. The Gregory's are great neighbors. They've always been great. It's just obviously the future of what would go down. 24-7 would not be really cool. I have business hours that my CEP says I have to follow, but I'm not B3. Yeah, I guess that was just I wanted to chime in on Springdale just for my personal selfish reasons, I just want to make sure that there's no connection between the lot that is the golf course parking lot, the batting cage parking lot into that section. That would help me a ton. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Appreciate it. Anyone else? One last call. I'll get back to you. One last call. If not, no one else? No. I'll close the public hearing. And at this time, staff and applicant, let's have a response. Who would like to come back? Can the applicant come forward, please? Because I do have time for that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Claytor was right. We've known each other a long time. He's done a lot of development. He understands traffic. He knows how to handle traffic. I will say, and this will address comments from every one of the speakers, we are not asking for the comprehensive plan to be amended so that the Stevens City Bypass runs down Pippen Lane. We are not asking for that. We are making provisions should the Planning Commission and the Board of Supervisors choose to do that at some future time. But for those, and I believe some of the speakers spoke to the comprehensive plan process that was accomplished for the area out there, they are probably aware that the Stevens City Bypass is always connected up to Springdale Road. Now, I used to live out there, and Springdale is not the place for a truck. I'm not sure it's the place for a school bus, and it's certainly not the place for young drivers. It's narrow, it's windy, and it's just not a place for trucks. So we understand that, again, we are not looking to put our traffic on that road. That would be a huge mistake for Mr. Gregory, as well as for the citizens that live along there. The sewer capacity, again, we're willing to abandon septic. We have spoken with Gary Oates. He feels like that the sewer capacity associated or the sewer being generated by these buildings is going to be small. There will not be a lot of people in these buildings, a small office with warehousing operations, so it's not going to generate a lot of sewer capacity, or sewer that will need capacity. So he feels like 막 that could be accommodated. We have done everything we can to try to minimize the impact on the historic district. We are not getting into the historic district with us, but we understand there is a historic district there, and we have an appreciation for the historic district and understand why it's there and certainly support what's going on in the historic district. But at the same time, Mr. Gregory would like to develop this property in a manner that is conducive with what he'd like to accomplish there with his business and be able to carry that forward. But nothing else can happen on that property as far as additional rezonings on the back of it, other lands that he owns, without this body taking some form of action and the Board of Supervisors taking a subsequent action. This is what we're asking for, less than 20 acres, and anything beyond this would have to go back through the same process. It's not an automatic giveaway should that be desired at some point in the future. With that, I'll conclude my remarks again. Thank you very much. Any questions for the rest of the time? Thanks, sir. PC members, questions, discussion? Mr. Thomas. I'm a staunch supporter of individual property rights, and the Gregory family is certainly a solid family in Frederick County, and it's a solid business in Frederick County. But I have a lot of concerns about this rezoning or potential rezoning. And I'm a little even concerned about some of our staff comments where we say that it may be compliant with the comprehensive plan. That kind of puts us in a real gray area, I think. I also think that we may, as a planning commission, we may have made a mistake with our comprehensive plan. I'm not sure that area there should be a commercial area. Or if it is a commercial area, it should be a very light commercial area and not have the potential for B3 or B2 in that area. You're surrounded on two sides by a historical area. Yeah. I think that the Bartonsville area there is a small area, but it's a very historic, a very pristine area. And I think this will have a significant impact on it. I certainly would not go with a 50-foot buffer off of Route 11. I even think 150 feet probably isn't sufficient to put it back there because it's all uphill. Everything that's up there is going to be seen from the road, and it's going to be seen from the Bartonsville area. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think the proffers are very weak. We could end up with something out there in five years or ten years if the Gregory's sell it off or other things happen that is a very intensive use. And there aren't proffers sufficient to protect that property. I don't think there should be any outside storage at all allowed. I mean, I've been in very many construction yards, and outside storage in a construction yard is not the most attractive thing to look at, unless you're a constructionist. I'm not a construction guy. And I don't think most of the people in the Bartonsville area are construction folks that would want to look at it. The truck traffic, I think, is going to be very intense. And the comment that most of it will go north past Bartonsville housing there is true. And 646 tractor trailers is an intense flow, even a 24-hour period, which most of that will probably be during the day. I think the proffers need, like I already said this, I think the proffers need to be more intensive. It's going to be much more extensive if we would consider this. And a lot more things need to be proffered out. I think everything needs to be stored inside. You know, I just think that that has a significant impact on that area. I mean, across Route 11, it's a historical area. But that little corner there is cut out, and it's not a historical area. And I don't understand that. But I really think we made a mistake in our comprehensive. And I think that area should be looked at again to see if that's really how we want to have it there. Personally, I don't think the development there is appropriate. I think it should be much less intense and should protect the surrounding area much more. All right. Thank you, Mr. Thomas. Anyone else? Mr. Moe? Excuse me. Just to piggyback on what Roger said, I think I agree with a lot of your sentiments. I think that, you know, fundamentally, this proposal doesn't align with the general plan, with our comprehensive plan. So just out of the gate, you know, I have some concerns with the proposal relative to what the plan calls for and what the land use is. I do think that because it's a rezoning, we have the ability to work with an applicant and the applicant to work with us to make sure the development fits. You know, it is on the edge. You know, something's going to be on the edge. And I think that being said, there's a lot more that could be done. And I think there were comments about, you know, elevations, things of that nature. I did take a quick look at the B3 district. I mean, it's 35 feet is the height, which is the same as the B2 and the B1. But how that 35 feet is designed, what type of buildings those are, if these are flat roof buildings that are going to be set back there, you know, that's definitely not a contribution to that kind of distinctive area that I think we'd be happy with. And I don't think it's exactly what we're hoping for. When we plan this area. So I agree that there's more that needs to be done. If this proposal is going to go forward, I'm not sure how you reconcile B3, which is heavy commercial with a plan for general commercial. I think just out of the gate again, that's not quite right. And I think the comment about the general or the comprehensive plan again is that, you know, if anything, if this was the intent, and if this is a bigger picture, idea that the property owner has, then it really should have been a comp plan amendment proposal first to give us an opportunity to really talk about what this area should be. It wasn't that long ago that we did update the plan and we may have made a mistake, but I think the mistake wasn't to under utilize or under plan. If anything, it may be the other way. But if we're going to move forward with anything that's going to be favorable here, I think there's more work that needs to be done about the, about the, the, the, the treatments of the area and how it fits. So that's what I would be hoping for and looking for. And I'd actually encourage the property owner to reconsider what they're proposing. Mr. Moon. Who else? Other comments? I'll echo what they're saying. I think that just needs some work and I don't, um, when we start using the term that we may have made a mistake in the comprehensive plan, you know, we could have prior folks before us could have, so that, I mean, we compound keep compound something that we may have made a mistake and keep adding to it. And, um, and it is a very pretty ride at springdale road. I did it again today just to refresh my memory. And I'm concerned when I keep hearing the word cul-de-sac come up and they have the ability. And I know we're not dealing with this parcel here, we deal with what's in front of us and, and, but when you, we keep hearing that, that, uh, cul-de-sac on spring, uh, Springdale Road because we knew about that, then he has the potential. This does have the potential. And I sat here and think it would be great if we had two ways out of Stonewall Industrial Park and we're going to have two out of 20 acres out here potentially down the road. And even though we're dumping it out into the residential, so I do think this needs some work. So I do agree with my two commissioners here that, you know, it concerns me a little bit that, well, we need to maybe take a little look at this. But with that being said, that's my two cents. With that being said, I'll entertain a motion since there's no more discussion. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Backcreek. Now, it's certainly understandable that we cannot scrutinize an applicant because we've made a mistake on the comprehension plan. Now, you all are asking or talking about more work. Are you speaking of maybe postponing this? For the applicant to come back with us for more work? Is this the work you're speaking of? That's certainly an option, Mr. Marston. Yes, that's certainly an option. The applicant could go back and work with staff to try it. From what's been discussed here tonight, the concerns have been discussed that we've heard. So, yes, that's definitely an option you can do. And what length of time, Mr. Ruddy, can we postpone this? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I would say a minimum of 45 days is what our bylaws calls for. But if that's sufficient time, then so be it. If it takes a little bit longer, then I would suggest 60 or 90 days. I'm sure the applicant might want to give some idea about what they would be comfortable with. Thank you, Mr. Ruddy. Mr. Stowe, if 60 days be sufficient, I'm getting this. Mr. Marston, maybe 60 days. If that's what you have in mind, yes. All right, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to make a motion. I have a motion for the rezoning of 0220 for Pippin Industrial Park that we postpone any decision on this application for 60 days. I have a second. I'll second that. Okay. So I have a motion to postpone the application for 60 days, and I have a second. I'll start with Mr. Ambroji. Ambroji, yes. Jewell, yes. Marston, yes. Mettner, yes. Hine, yes. Thomas, yes. Mr. Flint, yes. Cone, yes. Dustin, yes. Morrison, yes. Baldwin, yes. Chair votes yes. It's postponed for 60 days. Thank you. Thank you for everyone. Thank you for everyone to speak before tonight. The next item on our agenda is also a public hearing item. It's 2020-2025 Agricultural and Forestry District Update. Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Planning Commission, you're correct. This is the 2025 Agricultural and Forestry District Update. This is a public hearing to consider the renewal of the Albin, Apple Pie Ridge, Double Church, Green Spring, Redbud, South Frederick, South Timber Ridge districts. Renewal of these districts was established a total of 10,779 acres. This public hearing is also the consideration of two additional districts that have been added to your ag and forestal districts. Those districts are the Back Mountain District with a total of 489.91 acres and our Alliance District with a total of 203 acres. The total of 11,472.25 acres within the ag and forestal district program for the ensuing five-year period. Properties are incorporated into the ag and forestal district and are in. Projected or excuse me, are guaranteed certain protection as specified in the Code of Virginia. Every, again, every five years the ag and forest district is renewed and the Board of Supervisors sets up a Agricultural and Forestry Advisory Committee or ADAC. And this is also required by the Code of Virginia. And again, their duty is to evaluate renew or remove, add or remove properties from the ag and forest districts. They sort of vend it first. Then it comes, of course, to the Planning Commission and ultimately to the Board of Supervisors for final approval. The creation of the seven districts this year, and there are two new districts. There's renewal of the seven. We've actually added two that have asked to come in. One of the questions that's always asked at this Board and the other Board is what's the advantage of being an ag and forest district? That comes all the time. And, and basically it's, you get a bonus density if you're participating in the County's TDR program, Transfer of Development Rights program. So there's a little added there. Of course, before you can get into that program, it has to be evaluated by Frederick County. To certain receiving areas, it's beyond the scope of what we're here tonight for. But that's one of the advantages you have it. The other advantage of course is the land use taxation. The third advantage is preserving the open space. And protecting our pristine areas. And probably the most important and the last one they're all important would be to promote the agribusiness. And for long-range agricultural planning. What it does basically is, call out through our comprehensive policy plan in our zoning ordinance that this is ag and forest district. The property owners have volunteered to come in the district. And that's the key thing, Mr. Chairman, it's a volunteer program. And how we do it in Frederick County is you volunteer. to come in, you can volunteer to come out. Also, it's not yet used as a planning tool, but as you're well aware, we'll be updating our comprehensive policy plan next year. It's sort of like a yellow light, if you will, if you're gonna do any development there, that the Board of Supervisors Planning Commission recognize that these districts are set aside, the property owners want to set aside for agricultural. The first one today, what I'm gonna do, Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow me, is I'm gonna review all the districts that we have and then come back if there's any questions that you or the planning commissioners may have on any one district with the maps, and then go ahead for the record. You can go ahead through the public, of course, we have to have a public hearing, and if it's okay with you and the other planning commission, we can vote on it for the same time. The first district is the Auburn District. It's located in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. It currently has 1,014 acres. This proposed, 20, 25 district would contain the same amount that was, the renewing hasn't changed. There hasn't been any additions or subtractions from that district. If you could turn your attention to the map on your left, it's outlined in the yellow. So like I said, it's just the Auburn District has, it was there five years ago. Next district is the Appapai Ridge District. This is located in the Stonewall Magisterial District. It currently has 889 acres, and again, Mr. Chairman, this proposed, district will still contain the same amount of acres. There's none of them taken out or handed out. And there's the map, kind of gives you an outline of the district. Next district is the Double Church Road District. It's located in the Opakken Magisterial District, and it contains 889.85 acres. It's the district will be reduced to 878 district, or, 878 acres. With this update, there has been some property owners that wanted to come out. And there's the map of that Double Church District. Green Springs District, it's located in Gainesboro, Magisterial District again, contains 385.63 acres in two parcels. It's one of our smaller, not smaller districts, but it has just two parcels in it. Some of our, the newer district, the one that's located in, the newer districts you'll be seeing tonight, actually have one parcel. This district, again, for the update, would have the same amount of acres it had five years ago. There was no additions or subtractions. Of course, the map. The Redbud District is located within Stonewall Magisterial District. And it's generally, it runs parallel to Redbud Road. Now, this district currently contains 1,000, 07.34 acres. Five parcels have requested to be removed from the district, totaling 44.85 acres. However, 11 parcels have requested to be added to the district for a total of 58.56 acres. The total acres for the 2025 district, after considering the additions and subtractions, will increase from 1,007.34 to 1,144 acres. This includes 125 acres that has been requested, and it was received after the eight act meeting. So what had happened is we had sent notices about the Agricultural and Forestry District. We posted signs up, because it's a public hearing. Some folks look at it, and it's been our policy, or it's been Frederick County's policy, I should say, is we come right up until the Board of Supervisors meeting. If someone wants to come in, we'll just adjust the mapping, we'll just adjust the mapping, we'll just adjust the mapping, we'll just adjust the mapping, we'll just adjust the mapping, we'll just adjust the mapping, we'll just adjust the mapping, we'll just adjust the resolutions at that time. So what happened, we did get some additional property owners after seeing the signs, called staff, requested to come in, we added them, and that's what you're seeing here tonight. It's not reflected on the map you're seeing, this is just the outline of the district of the Redbub Magisterial District. That will be updated as we move forward. The South Frederick Agricultural and Forestry District is located in the Bat Creek Magisterial District. It currently contains, 5,764.21 acres. 13 parcels this district have requested to be removed from the district, totaling 1,016.32 acres. 20, or excuse me, 32 parcels have requested to be added to the district, totaling 862.15 acres. The total acres of the 2020 and 2025 district, after considering the additions, will be reduced by 5,764 acres, and the remaining will be 5,610.4 acres. Again, the map, it's actually two maps, this is the bigger district in terms of the area, what it's covering for the South Frederick. South Timberidge District is located in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. It contains 17 parcels which have 981.08 acres. It's mainly for the public. It's managed by one property owner. This proposed 2020-25 district will contain 981.0 acres. It was the same as when it was created, and there was no additions or subtractions from the district. There's the South Timberidge District on your map. Finally, we're coming to our two new districts. This proposed new district is called the Back Mountain District. The proposed district is located in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. The proposed district will have one parcel of 489.91 acres. And to your map on the left, if you're familiar with the Back Creek District, it's located just outside the Mountain Falls subdivision. It's controlled by one property owner, and they're requesting to come in to our Ag and Forestry District program. So that's one of your first new districts. The second new district is the Ag and Forestry District. The second new district is the Ag and Forestry District. This is the reliance agricultural forest district. This is the Opaca Magisterial District, located along Huddle Road and Hendley Road, located along Huddle Road and Hendley Road, the Posed district will consist of five parcels containing 203 acres. Again this is one of our additions to our Again this is one of our additions to our current districts, and there's the aerial map to our current districts and there's the aerial map that the districts is outlined. The ADAC didn't meet on the nextel Const不好意思. It's there 1 month after the месяc, and the Ag and Forestry District doesn't yield an acre. The council-awatment district will not be able to achieve an acre. of June of this year and recommended the renewal of the districts and the creation of two new districts. One request for an additional, excuse me, one request for an addition to the Redbud district was received that total was 125.91 acres. With all the acres that we have with the new ones that came in, all the districts will total 11,598.24 acres with the additional Redbud property. So this again, Mr. Chairman, is a public hearing for separate actions are needed for the following to update the ag districts, which are updated in the districts I just went over. The creation of the proposed Back Creek district and Reliance district will give all the districts a total of 1,589 or 98 .24 acres if adopted that will be in our Ag and Forestry District. And one other word, Mr. Chairman, just because I know we're on, folks could still, if they're interested, contact staff on this district. Even though it hadn't gone to the 8 Act, unless it's a new district, staff will look at it and we'll move forward to the Board of Supervisors. With that, Mr. Chairman, I'll answer any questions you or any of the planning commissioners may have on your Ag and Cultural and Forestry Districts. Thank you. Any questions? Mr. Thomas. This sounds like a dumb question. but I have to ask it anyhow. Can they put solar farms and windmill farms in the Agricultural and Forrester district? Yeah they can. We allow, in our Ag and Forestry Districts, we do allow conditional use permits in them. We've, if you recall, we've had some telecommunication towers during our Ag and Forestry Districts. So we allow it to preserve property for farming. I know that that has come up through the couple applications coming for this board for solar. So the property owners would get a benefit but the county would lose tax revenue. That's a taxation question I could not answer. You need to talk to the Commissioner Reverand on that. I think that's a valid question for any future Planning Commission meeting when we have 800 or 900 acres coming in and we're gonna lose tax revenue but the developer is gonna make big bucks on a solar farm. I think the Planning Department should have an answer for that when we have the next submittal comes in that requests a conditional use permit because that's a significant tax loss. We will take that I'll take that into consideration Mr. Thomas. Mr. Chairman if I might be able to also clarify that point. Any such solar facility would have the ability to be continue to be in an agricultural and forestal district. They would not have the benefit of land use taxation. Again the commissioner revenue has a different way of approaching that and so the land use evaluation they would have to address the rollback tax issue, pay those taxes and then be addressed appropriately whatever their commission revenue would deem that be with the solar facility itself. That generates additional taxation opportunities for the county, and through the commission of revenue, the county does receive tax revenue, if you will, from such solar facilities. But again, a solar facility or a cell tower would be allowed to be within an agricultural and forestry district. It would not qualify for agricultural land use taxation. Thank you, Mr. Ruddy. Any other questions? Mr. Molden. I've got a question about the Reliance Road Agricultural District in the parcel 92A18. That is the Judy property, and if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Judy runs his business from that location, keeps his equipment there. Am I correct? That would be a question for Mr. Chair. Just know that Mr. Judy owns that. I don't know if he runs his business out of there. Okay. Well, I know for a fact that the trucks come and go from there, so I was just curious that that could be an agricultural district and still run a business from that location. That concerns me that we're letting a business run on an agricultural and it's not an agricultural business, but that just concerns me. I thought I'd bring that to your attention. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Hearing no other discussion there, this is a public hearing. Anyone who would like to come forward? I'll open a public hearing at this time to speak to or for this matter. Seeing no one rushing up, I'll close the public hearing. Any further discussion? For staff? Hearing no one. I've got my ducks in a row here. I believe we're doing one motion for all these districts. Is that correct? Even an additional of the new ones? Is that how we're going to handle this, or do I need to do two separate motions to add the two new ones and then go back to the other ones? Two separate motions. Yes, you add the new ones in for the record. All right. So I need a motion to include, and I take it that staff will address Mr. Molden's concerns moving forward. We will. I left up the districts up there for you, Mr. Chairman. Okay, thank you. So do we want to do the two new ones first? I'll do the two new ones first. I'll entertain a motion to add the Back Creek, the Back Mountain District and the Reliance District as their two new districts to the Agricultural Forest Herald District. So moved. Do I have a second? Second. I'll start down here with Mr. Molden. Molden, no. Morrison, yes. Dawson, yes. Moe, no. Triplett, no. Thomas, no. All right, yes. Hendry, yes. Marston, yes. Jewell, yes. Ambogia, yes. Oates, yes. Chair votes yes. So we think the majority ruled there with adding those two new districts to the Ag and Forest Herald District with the duly noted on the Reliance District. That will go to the Board of Supervisors on the 12th. The next motion I'll entertain is to renew the remaining seven that we see up here on the board. Auburn, Apple Pie Ridge, Double Church, Green Springs, and the West Coast. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. So we've got Spring, Redbud, South Frederick, and South Timber Ridge. Do I have a motion to renew those? So moved. I've got a motion. Second. I've got a second. Mr. Oates? Oates, yes. Ambogia, yes. Jewell, yes. Marston, yes. Mendham, yes. Stieswood, yes. Thomas, yes. Triplett, yes. Molden, yes. Dawson, yes. Morrison, yes. Molden, yes. And Chairvotes, yes. So that also will go with the 314c for strategy. favorable vote to the Board of Supervisors on the 12th. Thank you. And we move on to our next item. Our next item is a draft update of the 2020-2021 Frederick County Interstate and Primary Road Improvement Plan. And I see Mr. Bishop making his way forward. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. Just preliminary, as you noted, this is a public hearing item as well. You are typically used to getting interstate, primary, and secondary together. So just to clarify any confusion that may result from the fact that you're only seeing interstate and primary this evening, that is solely due to the fact that the secondary program is actually a programming document as well in cooperation with VDOT, and they are still in the midst of trying to update revenue projections. So right now, I do not have an estimate on when they're going to be done. I was in a meeting. In a virtual meeting this morning where I asked that question again, and the Stanton District still has not gotten anything concrete. So once those things come through, you'll see that as opposed to when you're used to seeing it, but that will be coming. Moving on, we do have basic updates of your interstate and primary plans. These are long, well-established plans, and we only have so many interstates and primaries in the community, so relatively brief. But if I may begin with the interstate road improvement plan summary of changes, the first of those is a simple update to the language on exit 317. The reason for that, frankly, was to make the language a little more general. The reason I'm trying to make the language a little more general, and the committee agreed, is because we have multiple smart scale applications going forward for that interchange. The first of which is a county and county-wide exchange. The second is a county application for the VDOT district grant program under smart scale, and it's a smaller application that would realign that northbound exit ramp as well as improve turning lanes under the interstate for northbound and southbound ramps. It's a more modest application going against a smaller pot of money in order to try and be competitive. Now, those improvements would certainly still have their impact, but they are not the ultimate solution, if you will. The other application is a county application for the VDOT district grant program under smart scale, and that's going forward, still a county application, but going forward through the metropolitan planning organization in order to access the statewide high priority funds through smart scale, which is a much larger pot of money. As such, it's a more aggressive application in which we're seeking to do an interchange treatment called a diverging diamond. I'm happy to speak more with anybody interested in that, but just that is why you see much more general language for the exit 317. I think it's important to understand that it's quite different for all of us in terms of the state and county to have a different approach to the exit 307. We've seen more improvements to the exit 317 improvements than you did in the past to make sure there's no conflict with either of those applications. The next change that you see regards the exit 307. Previously you had one DOT, if you will. Now you have a purple DOT and a yellow DOT, and this is simply to clarify that, while we do need improvements, frankly, in the nearer term to the existing exit 307, it still emphasizes the different applications that we do need to do an interchange treatment. the desired long term for the relocated exit 307. So you see that update. And that is the total of the changes from last year to the Interstate Road Improvement Plan. Are there any questions on the Interstate Plan before I move on to primary? Any questions? Okay. On the primary Road Improvement Plan, once again, just a simple update. Anybody who travels 277 these days knows that we are finally moving to construction on the first phase of the long desired improvements to Route 277. So simply put, we have removed what previously was 3A, I'm sorry, yeah, 3A, from the plan and re-ranked the rest of the 277 desired improvements since that job has actually, gotten a notice to proceed. You may recall in past updates, if a job has been funded but not necessarily constructed yet, we've kept it on there because through long experience, we have sometimes seen things fall away. However, since the actual notice to proceed and you see cones out there and everything else now, barrels rather, I have a high level of confidence that I don't have to worry about that. So we've gone ahead and cleaned that up. I would further note that the committee just as an, as an informational item, the committee has authorized me to go ahead and undergo a bit of a literature and research review to look into priority setting practices and other communities and states just to make sure we're still happy with how we're doing. It's an interest item at this point. It's too soon to say if it will go anywhere, but that's just a discussion that's gonna be taking place at the Transportation Committee that I would just, make you aware of. With that said, the committee did review this item on July 27th and has recommended approval to the board. We are seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission as well. And as we already know, it's public hearing. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Any questions, concerns? We in my panic, Mr. Moe. I really don't wanna ask this question, but I can't help myself. Yes, sir. Sorry, Mark. Route 37, is there a point where we as a county, as a community, and maybe the Transportation Committee has done this, is there a point where we look at that and really think critically about the reality of whether that road, as it's been conceived, envisioned, and incorporated in our plans, is it viable? Is it something that, is the cost just gonna continue to grow and grow and grow, and we're gonna continue to have it on our plans, but it's been 30 years or so since the first public input sessions about the whole thing, and it's just, every year that I see it, I just kind of, I feel it, I feel it in my soul that I need to ask the question, and if we need to reimagine what this road's gonna be. It's a very fair question as far as the escalating cost. Of course, it's escalating, and as a high-cost item, you feel that even more, because all projects that go unbuilt are escalating, of course, but when it's a high-cost item, it really knocks your socks off to see how much money we're talking about. That said, there's been quite a bit of discussion at the staff level, and sometimes with the individual developer level. With the upcoming comprehensive plan update, I do expect that, with the upcoming comprehensive plan update, I do expect with the upcoming comprehensive plan update, I do expect that just well may be a good opportunity to reinvigorate that conversation, but it's certainly something that's in the front of our minds. Thank you. Thank you. It's a public hearing. I'll open the public hearing for anyone who'd like to come forward, speak to this matter, voice their thoughts. Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing. And if there's no further discussion from the staff, or for commissioners, I'll entertain a motion. Do we need a motion to send this on to the board. So do I have a motion? Mr. Chairman, I move that we send the 2020-2021 Frederick County primary and interstate road improvement plan to the Board of Supervisors with a positive recommendation. Second. Got a second. Yes. And I will start, let me change, I'm gonna try it with Miss Dawson. How about that? I don't want her to nod off on me tonight. Is she here? Moulton, yes. Mr. Roach? Roach, yes. Ambroji, yes. Jewell, yes. Arshnan, yes. Manfred, yes. Ryan, yes. Thomas, yes. Triplett, yes. Bone, yes. Chair votes yes. This goes for approval, goes to the board of supervisors also, I believe, on the 12th of August. It'll be a busy day that day. Thank you for everyone. The next item is an information discussion item on our agenda for daycare facilities. Mr. Klein. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is a proposed ordinance amendment to the zoning ordinance to expand the county's definition for daycare facility to also include adult care. Our current definition for daycare facility limits these types of services to only children. I will note that this is a request from a local engineering firm on behalf of their client to amend the ordinance. An amendment to the definition is proposed as follows. That for a daycare facility, it be a facility in which five children and or adults, not including persons who are related by blood, marriage, or adoption to the people who maintain the facility, are received for care, protection, and guidance during only part of a 24-hour day. The proposed amendment would not change which zoning districts these types of facilities are allowed in, either by right or with an approved conditional use permit. The development review and regulations. The planning committee reviewed this ordinance amendment request on June 25th and generally supported the proposed amendment to expand the definition of daycare facilities to include adult care. The DRRC highlighted a gap with this type of service within the community for the care of elderly and or disabled adults during the work week. This item is presented to you all this evening for information discussion and any comments from the Planning Commission will be forwarded to the Board of Supervisors. Thank you. Mr. Klein. Discussion? Members? Mr. Thomas. Certainly we have a need in the county for adult care facilities. I'm a little, I don't know, concerned or shouldn't we just have a separate ordinance or separate paragraph for adult care facilities because the facility conditions and everything I would think have to be significantly different than a child care facility. I'm sure the state has a licensing. Well, I shouldn't say I'm sure. I assume the state has a licensing process for an adult care facility similar to a daycare facility, but the requirements for restrooms, for safety areas, for handicapped conditions for an adult are significantly different than for a child. So where would those conditions be covered if we just lump it in with a child care facility? We don't have any supplemental uses for child care facilities. So it's just the definition in the either in the use or in ordinance. All the other requirements for those types of facilities are handled as you stated by the state. They do have requirements for child care facilities and they also have requirements, similar requirements for adult care facilities. Obviously, individual uses may be required a conditional use permit. So conditions could be assigned by the county and they would certainly need to meet all the building code requirements when they applied for a site plan. And those would in turn, you know, the type of restaurant. Rooms, kitchen facilities, access, those type of things. Make it extremely obvious to people. Sometimes we assume things that maybe we shouldn't assume. Should we put a statement in here that they have to comply with all building code requirements and state requirements for an adult care facility? Well, when you were required to establish a use, you'd have to set up, you'd have to do a site plan through the county. So all those requirements would be met through that process. Um, but certainly if it's. It's a recommendation of the Planning Commission, we can certainly include that as part of the definition. I would like to see us put a little more thought into the adult care part because, uh, you know, I'm not sure in child care facilities you probably don't need defibrillators. But in an adult care facility, you probably should have some things like that and other specific requirements. And, uh, I just think we ought to remind. Or pointed out that they have to meet the state requirements. And so that people recognize that, uh, you know, I have a child care facility, so I can just convert over to a daycare or an adult care facility. Uh, you know, hopefully people won't think that. But, uh, you know, I think they are significantly different and should be treated differently or separately. Certainly conveyed those comments. Thank you. Else. The question is Mr. Roach. Um. Um. I don't know if I can go along with that, Roger, about adding in supplemental, uh, items for adult care since we don't do it for child care. Because generally when we get this in as a CUP, that's one of the first conditions you have to comply with the state. So if we add in supplemental standards, then we're going to be chasing every year if the state is changing their requirements to make sure we don't conflict. Well, I don't want to add in supplemental standards. I just want to make it very clear that they have to meet the state standards. Right. But that's always, like, the number one condition on every single day. I know. I always put that in there. But that doesn't mean people always read it. All right. Uh, the only question I had is since we're adding it to this definition, would all the CUPs for child care that's been adopted up till today automatically be able to do adult care now since we just changed the overall definition? Uh, no. They would be under the, what they were approved for prior to the change in the definition. Okay. They're, when they came in for a conditional use permit, they would have to specify daycare. Uh. Daycare or adult care. Child care or adult care. Correct. And on those conditions, uh, previously approved, we typically condition the number of children that are allowed. So it's very clear that it's children, X amount, that are allowed with those types of facilities. Question? Just one, just one question. So really what this is doing is clarifying that from a land use perspective where daycare centers are permitted for children, they're allowed to use daycare centers. Uh-huh. So that's the question. Uh-huh. So that's the question. Uh-huh. So that's the question. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. So the reason they're not required for them is because the better they're used for children, we effectively think those are the same locations that are appropriate for an adult care center. Exactly. I mean, subject to CUP or whatever. Generally, yes, that is the intent. Okay. And how is that like today, if someone is the issue that if you were to want to propose such a use that we don't have a use in the ordinance that allows for it, or? That is correct, and the engineer that put forth the request has a client that's in charge of the service that allows for it. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Yeah, that's a good point. That is correct, and the engineer that put forth the request has a client that's in charge of the service. Okay. So that's a good point. interested in doing adult care and we spoke with the zoning administrator and there's no other mechanism in the ordinance short of changing the definition of daycare facility that would allow us to establish that use thank you else discussion i think you've got a lot of discussion that took place and i think you got some good points to take back to the board and i think that's good so it'll go to uh you'll take those on back on the 12th also okay thank you all right uh keep moving forward here the other we the unless there's something else i do know we make some announcements real quick under other we have a joint session on the 12th of august next wednesday at 5 30 with the board of supervisors this planning commission and the board of supervisors and uh so and i think that the call will note that food will be served at five o'clock so keep that in mind our next meeting of this planning commission we have known for the uh 19th of the month so we'll have one two weeks hence from now and that's all i have under other unless i'm looking over at my secretary and he's saying no you covered all of the basis thank you all right i'll do a motion entertain a motion to adjourn mr chairman i move move that we adjourn all those in favor we're adjourned you
