Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors - Work Session
Date:    2020-04-01
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=45
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I as well had some folks reach out to me in regards to my comments at the last meeting, and I would like to share a couple things. One of the things, comments that was made in a response back to the Winchester Star request by Superintendent Savano of the schools, had stated about knowing our roles. As board of supervisors versus school board versus his position. I'm not sure that he understands where I'm coming from, and I'd like to just clarify that a little bit here. I know what my role is. My role is to be the most transparent and most accountable board member in which I can be with the citizens' taxpayers' dollars. I can get information from all of the other divisions that I want information from, whether that be the sheriff, whether it be fire rescue, you insert the blank. I seem to be able to get a lot of information from them. But I heard a comment from Mr. Savano in his response to Winchester Star that was very troubling to me. And it is this. It says, he isn't always aware of what other school divisions are doing when I have referenced Loudoun County or other counties. I'd like to bring along, or I brought along this evening something with me that I'd like for him to look at when he has some time. In front of me this evening is Loudoun County Public Schools fiscal year 2021 superintendent's proposed budget. And it was laid out on January the 9th of this year. For their school board to look at to bring to a conversation with the board of supervisors. Now, in case anyone is asking, I still have yet to receive an itemized budget or a line item budget from the school so we can have a good sit down dialogue with the school board. Because you see, that's not Mr. Savano's job to negotiate with this board. It is the school board's job to work with us and present their needs and have good open dialogue so that we can be not only good with the dialogue, transparent with the taxpayers' money, but also meet the needs of the school system. And it is concerning to me that a school system such as Loudoun County, I know a lot more about that locality school system than I do about my own. So, Mr. Savano, Superintendent Savano, excuse me. I have all ears. I'd like to know what your needs are. But before I can help you out, I need to know where you stand. Thanks. All right, sir. Item number. A, under our budget resolution. B and C. And some information at the end of our meeting. Entertaining motion to adopt the agenda as presented. So moved. Motion to second. Second. Second. All those in favor, aye. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Aye. Yes. Before we vote. Discussion. I would just like to have Supervisor's comments added to the end after we have the work session. Okay. If I may. Okay. So. The motion concur to be amended. Supervisor's comments just prior to item three adjourned. I didn't hear. I thought I was a second. Okay. I thought you were the second also. You made the motion to adopt the agenda. Are you okay with the amendment? Supervisor's comments prior to adjournment. I am. I'm a team. Not too long. Sir. Second. Aye. Any further discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. We'll adopt the agenda. That will bring us to the end of the meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. There was a consensus amongst the board or a majority of the board to advertise a five cent tax increase which has taken place and you're slated to adopt a budget next week at your regular meeting on april 8th obviously with the events of the day and this coronavirus um you know the the entire world's kind of been turned upside down and we're adjusting as needed and as best we can to to those circumstances we know that our revenue in some areas is going to be impacted the most obvious being meals and lodging we have some information for you regarding that which i can get into in a little bit more detail but knowing that somewhere of the board has expressed concern based on the circumstances on the proposed budget what we've done is amended the resolution that the board would adopt as you adopt the budget and if you look at that resolution you'll see that we've added a column a in a column B and basically column a is the budget as it has been advertised for the five cent tax increase column B reverts back to scenario a which was a budget scenario that included no tax increase and kept us at the current rate the areas that you see highlighted in the pink color are the categories that would change as a result of that adjustment so staffs requested the board obviously is that you have an option to make them baked and by the end of this process so I'm going to move this part up a little bit you for this process I think it's fairly obvious you are making a decision tonight you do not want to it's easy to get either that and you give some thought to where you want to go it may be something other than column a or column B but those are the two that seem most obvious Unfortunately, you know, this virus has come upon us rather suddenly, and the impacts really are kind of yet to be determined. You know, locally, I would say that we began to feel the impacts in mid to late March. We don't really have revenue data yet to know exactly what those impacts are going to be. But I'll give you just some bits of information that help, I hope, put this into perspective. Ironically, March, for our inspections department, they brought in $180,000 in the month of March, which is nearly a record month. We've been averaging around $120,000 a month. in revenue and inspections. The last time revenue has hit that high for a month was back in March of 06. So up until March, at least, the building community was still going strong. And we don't know, obviously, what's going to happen moving forward. But we anticipate that our revenue for that department will actually be up this year, at year end. Landfill revenue, which tends to reflect the building community, is also up. Parks and Rec revenue is going to be down and significantly down, obviously. All the Parks and Rec programs have been canceled for the remainder of the year, we expect. So all the revenue they derive supports a great deal of that Parks and Rec department budget. That's going to take a hit. We know that. If you look towards the end of your packet, we prepared a pie chart just to give you some sense of where our revenue comes from. And you can see that the two largest percentages, 38% of our revenue comes from general property taxes, personal property, real estate. 30% comes from state revenue. And then... The pie piece up towards the top, the reddish color, combined is sales, meals, and lodging. Those three taxes account for only 6.5% of our revenue. I think the point being that if meals and lodging and sales are down, for us, it's significant, but it's not anywhere near as significant as some of these other categories, because it makes up such a small percentage of the overall budget. 6.5% of a $343 million budget. Our budget is about $22 million. We're eight months into the year. So if you assume that for the next four months that revenue drops dramatically, and you can pick a percent or a number, the impact in the overall budget is not as significant as it would be if it were a drop in some of these other categories. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I know you have no other comments. I just wanted to add something, is, at 48% the...38%, as of right now...well, at 38%, that's $131 million of the $343 million budget, so again, trying to put it in perspective. The anticipation is personal property tax will be up about $3 million this year, and real estate will be up $1.5 million. Now those are the assessed values. That's not what we collect, but obviously, we would hope to collect much more. No, no, no. No. No. most if not all of that. So the reason I provide that information is just, again, to kind of put it in perspective as to what does it mean to the county if the restaurant meals tax is down dramatically for the remainder of the year. Now, again, what none of us know is how long is this situation going to persist? Is it going to get into the summer and summer months? We don't know. And we don't know what the overall impact will be. So from the staff's perspective, you know, it would be our desire, and we realize we don't get a vote, but our desire would be that we proceed and set a tax rate and adopt a budget next week. If need be, come July, when hopefully the dust has settled, if we find that we've been hit far worse than we thought, we'll have to go back and adjust and amend budgets, and we'll have to go back and adjust accordingly. But right now, it feels premature to me to make dramatic adjustments in a budget when we really don't know what we're dealing with. So that's my perspective and my perspective alone. We're looking for the board, really, at this point, for guidance and what you'd like from us, and if we can answer questions, we'll certainly try and do that. Let's start with questions. Questions? Mr. Tierney, anyone? Yes, sir. As we're done. Tierney, and you may not be able to give us, but on the state portion of the budget, which is some 30 percent, do you have any idea of approximately how that may or may not be affected, or if you don't, do you know when you're going to figure out or find out, not figure out, but find out what adjustment that will occur? I've heard that it's going to be down. I've heard it's not going to be down. So best thoughts? I honestly don't know. I mean, I don't know that anybody knows the answer to that question, quite honestly. Okay. I certainly don't. And then the other comment is that if we set a tax rate next week, we can come back, and depending upon what our revenue is in July, August, September, we can adjust this accordingly. Not the rate. No, no, not the rate. I'm talking about the budget itself. Correct, right. On what dollars we have, because we only have, we either have dollars that are going to come in for revenue, or we're going to have to go into the, you know, line of credit where we have to make some adjustments, I would say. Well, you know, again, my suggestion is that we wait and see where we are. We have a very healthy reserve. You know, the last few years we've been fortunate. We haven't had to dip into that. But we have a very healthy fund balance. You know, our history has been that at the end of every year, we return money, usually in the millions, a couple million. So it's, I think it's too early to say where we're going to be at year end. But certainly if revenue takes a big hit, and we can't afford the budget that ends up being adopted, then we'll have to go back and modify that budget and adjust accordingly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was great. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, a question for you. The reserves, as I understand it, we have approximately two months' worth of reserves. Is that correct? Yes. Do you want to answer that? Jeremy? Yes. Yes, we have about $39 million in reserves. That's our unreserved fund balance. We also have the funds that we pushed out of that for capital, and there's about $7.5 million. That's not part of that. So how long would we last as a county on that as far as if revenue stopped today, how long does that carry us? Is that two months' worth of bills? How long is that? It's two months. Two months. Two months. Thank you. Thank you. Questions of staff? Comments? Anyone? Supervisor Dunn? Schiffler? But we are going to get money in July. I mean, we will get a block of money, so the two-month situation is not... Well, you'll get... We'll get some additional monies in July, so we won't know where we are until that money comes in, correct? We will get additional monies from where in July? Real estate tax? Oh, in June. Sorry, Popwell. Yes, normally it's in June. Okay. That's correct. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? I have a small... Supervisor Graver. Yes, sir. I have a small presentation that I've prepared just for us to consider and talk about if now is a good time. Works? Works. All right. So what I've done is went back and looked a little bit at some of the investment things, partners that I've dealt with, and I've brought a few things to light that I'd like to see us as a board consider. And it is by no means where I am. It's just something I'd like to have us look at and hopefully get feedback from everyone regarding where you see us as a budget. Personally, I don't want to see a tax increase when so many of my constituents are struggling. I've received a lot of phone calls and a lot of emails, and it's been some pretty heartbreaking stories. So that's personally where I'm at, just so everyone is aware. If you go to the next slide there, sir. So at the bottom there is from Charles Schwab. I read an in-depth article from them regarding what they felt and a lot of the large banks and brokerage firms felt that our economy may look like the second quarter of 2020, which would be our fourth quarter on the books. As you see at the very top is Bloomberg Economics at 9% downward, all the way down from Capital Economics at the bottom of 40% downward projected revenue, or as far as projected GDP, for the second quarter. I'm not saying that I believe either the top or the bottom. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. I don't. Board of Supervisors in Fairfax County is considering delaying their personal property and real estate deadline for the first half of the year to August the 28th. And I know that that's something that's being circulated pretty strongly. I'd like to kind of at least have some thought process into what are our thoughts on having the real estate and personal property tax deadline being June 5th. And I don't think we need to make a decision tonight. I think it's something we probably need to look at the 1st of May and kind of see how this thing plays out over the next month. But I do believe that it's something we need to think about. Is it realistic to extend it 30 days, 45 days, or 60 days? And the reason for my thought process is this. If everyone stays home, as the President has outlined, on Sunday for 30 days, that gets us to the end of April. So if everyone goes back to work the 1st of May, it essentially gives small businesses and folks to be back on the job approximately 30 days. Most folks who are in small business, I know a lot of you are, you're on a 30-day billing cycle. So if you do work in May and you have a 30-day billing cycle, you're not going to start to see a lot of that revenue until June or early July. So my question is, is this worth considering or thinking about? Next slide. The numbers that I received here are from our Finance Director's office, and I appreciate them working so hard to get me these numbers. So what does a reduction from our current budget, the one we're in right now, our 4th quarter that started today, what does it look like? Well, the general fund remaining funds are there, $33 million. And as you see the little dot off to the side, it says it does not include salaries, fringes, or the Alvin Convenience Center. You see what a 5% reduction does to our budget and how much it would save us. I would like to see us consider either a 5% or a 10% reduction in light of what we could be seeing as far as a reduction in revenue, both in the budget and in the budget. So I would like to see a reduction in the budget from the state level or from the state level and also from local funds. I don't think we need to cut public safety or social services or even our debt transfer for the schools or the county debt. I want to make sure that we pay our debts as we need to. However, all of our other departments and our school operating transfer, I believe we could cut 10%. Schools are not in session. We're not running buses right now. So I believe that a 5% to 10% cut, and if we did 10% and excluded $3 million, that would be a reduction in our budget. If we cut our public safety and excluded our debt transfer, it would actually be somewhere in the neighborhood of an actual 7.5% budget cut for just this fourth quarter. But even if we were to do a true 10% budget cut for this fourth quarter, it would only be an actual 2.5% cut to the entire budget on a 12-month basis. Next. So that was just reiterating what I said. If you actually cut things 10% for the fourth quarter, it's an actual 2.5% overall cut for the year. And as I understand it, it would not necessarily affect the salaries of our staff, which I would not want to see it do. Next slide. I'd like to see us really look at some figures for 2021. I asked our finance director at our last Board of Supervisors meeting to give us some numbers of what a 3%, a 5%, and a 10% budget cut would look like for next year, and she so graciously provided this for us. Next slide. As we look across here, and I'm not set on any of the three numbers that are presented, but if you look at what has been projected from Charles Schwab and some of the others out there, if we were to do a 5% cut to everything except for public safety and for social services and our service, our debt, it would actually be about a 3.5% actual cut. If we did a 10% cut and excluded those same agencies, it would actually be, again, about a 7.5% cut. But I really believe that we need to... Next slide. Next slide. So, if you take a long, hard look at what our projected revenues may or may not be and speaking with a lot of the small business owners in my district and receiving phone calls from them, some of their businesses are off as much as 70%, some of them are off 50%. They're having some real struggles right now and I believe that we need to be mindful of that as we set our budget for next year. I think that we should look at a 5 or 10% cut. I'm open to hearing any suggestions anyone may have. Next slide. Next slide. Next slide. Next slide. Next slide. Next slide. Next slide. Next slide. I think that I have an opportunity in sec spent the next 12 months and I, asメnbalLac Santra that the revenues are considerably higher, then we can adjust our budget accordingly and decide from that point where we want to go. My concern is, is if we've already spent the money, we have to pay for those things that we've spent the money on. And it's, even if we adjust our budget at that point, we're already behind the eight ball. If we adjust our budget now, it gives us the opportunity if revenue is above what we think it might be, it gives us the opportunity to change our budget. And I haven't heard anybody complain when they get a little more money than what they had anticipated. So I think that it would behoove of us to take a good hard look at what these numbers are and see if a 5% or a 10% reduction is in line. Those are just some thoughts. Next slide, please. I've spoken about everything here except for the very bottom line. And the very bottom line is, as all budgets could be cut, in my opinion, with the exception of servicing our county debt and our school debt, our social services and our emergency services being with what we're facing. I think we need to have a good hard discussion as a board on where we stand and how we expect our citizens to pay with many of them being in the unemployment line. If you look at our unemployment numbers for last week, they were higher than they had ever been even during the Great Depression. I think that we need to be mindful of that as we set the tax rate and as we go forward. Thank you so much for your time. Okay. Budget resolution covered adequately? You want a discussion above it? I think we're, I've said what I felt I needed to. I'm certainly here for whatever direction we're given or questions. Thank you. We do need to be prepared with resolution on Wednesday the 8th. In an ideal world, it will go out on Friday with the agenda. So if you folks are willing to have a discussion about that subject, I think it would be beneficial, certainly help staff. Well, and just for clarification, it wouldn't be the first time we've put two budget resolutions in the agenda. Okay, with two, as long as we know what we want on them. Exactly. That was going to be my point. If there's something other than one of these two that we would need to know that. Okay. Comments, anyone? Bear with me one moment. Supervisor Slaughter, Supervisor McCarthy, are you with us? Yes. I am, Mr. Chairman. Can you hear me? Thank you both. Mr. Chairman, I have a comment if I could ask. Yes, please. Just to follow up on one. I think I agree with Mr. Tierney's comment regarding sort of taking a wait and see. I'm leaning, A, towards, well, I've always leaned towards not having a tax increase this year. I think it's imperative more than ever with the current situation with the economy that we not raise taxes at a time when people are losing their jobs. My concern with not cutting or not being prepared for reduced revenues is twofold. One is if we know right now that we're probably going to have two, three potential tax cuts, we're going to have to do something about that. Okay. We've got a lot of new revenue coming in. So I think we need to start looking at that. We're looking at a very, very large, an extremely substantial tax cut. But we're also looking at a tax cut that is potentially four months of no revenues from the food service industry. A three-month loss is somewhere between $5 and $6 million. A four-month loss is somewhere around $7 million. So any additional revenues that we're planning to take in from increased assessments, values, or what other tax revenues we were planning on getting are potentially going to be wiped out by the fact that the restaurants and the hotels and food industry aren't operating fully. those three to four months. So then my next question is, if we don't have that additional revenue and we're not raising taxes, then we need to start considering what we do if other revenues also get hit. I do think that it could be misleading to just wait until after the June tax revenues come in, because most of those tax revenues, or a good portion of those tax revenues, are paid through escrow accounts with the mortgage companies. And those escrow accounts are funded in advance. So most people are paying those accounts up about six months in advance. So when you go to buy a house, you're paying three to six months into your escrow account in advance just for potential increases or homeowner's insurance increases. So the banks will have plenty of money in those escrow accounts to pay the June taxes. My concern, though, is what happens in December when the people stop paying their mortgage payments now and those escrow accounts start to dry up and the banks don't have escrow balances, to pay the taxes come December. So I'd hate for us to deceive ourselves into thinking that our June revenues looked good and we're in good shape and the virus is gone and things are going to be on better footing and be deceived by the fact that there may be a lot of money not coming into the mortgage companies that will have a huge impact on the payment of real estate taxes come December. And I share Supervisor Graber's concern that by then we may have already invested money through our budget and things that we can't turn back the clock on and have no choice but to then tap into reserves or tap into escrow accounts. So I don't think that's a good idea. I think it would be a reasonable decision to go back to those or that would be reasonable. So we're beginning to see some savings being made. I think the reason we're seeing some savings is that we're starting to see a lot of revenue coming into credit lines. So I don't know what the right number is. I agree with Supervisor Graber that there should probably be some cuts put in up front. And then we can always come back later and fund with additional revenues that we can always increase the budgets. I'd rather cut now and increase later than spend too much now and try to decrease later. I don't know if it's 10% that seems steep to me. But 5% or 3% I think would be a reasonable decision. tightening of the belt um so to speak to make sure that we're you know prepared for the contingency if this thing continues to last for another two three four six months thank you sir thank you mr chairman yes if i could um the meals tax last year brought in 5.4 million and through february we had derived 3.8 so if we get zero collections from meals for the next four months the impact is what about a million and a half um lodging last year we brought in 700,000 and through february we already collected 600,000 so if we don't collect anything for the for the next four months we're going to be able to collect about a million and a half so if we don't collect anything for the next four months we're going to be able to collect about remaining four months we're out a hundred thousand dollars so i just wanted to get those numbers out there and and thank you sure i must have misunderstood when you said five or six million i thought you meant that would be the loss not the total no no i apologize as best we could project it's 1.6 million hit worst case fourth quarter worst case right that's that's assuming no collections at all that's only for this year yes yes through the end of the year yes sir through june 30. correct okay other comments concerns thoughts yeah i i am a member of the construction industry and i was talking earlier with folks and and it seems that you know everyone says our building industry is not going to be as good as it used to be and i think that's the problem i mean i don't think it's going to be as good as it used to be but i think that's the problem is that the building permits are up it's kind of the hoarding principle taking place everybody wants to get those houses built before the end comes get it in get it up get it finished and get it sold as quickly as you possibly can we saw the same thing happen at the recession and then you saw the glut that it brought so it's just it's just the way the building industry runs itself and we're seeing it again a lot of pressure on everyone to go as fast as possible and i think that's the problem here is that we're not going to be able to get as many buildings as we can in the next four months as you possibly can because we don't know what the next situation is the main thing that's going to affect them is going to be financing and people being able to get money to purchase a home several years ago when we went through the downturn we kept everything in revenue neutral as you all know and that was fine the only problem is is at some point in time in your life cycle you start coming back and we were starting to make a comeback and now here we go again i think if we tell i'm not worried about too much about making cuts but i am worried about looking at the future and saying what's going to happen if we move backwards how far is that going to set us back in the future when we have to move ahead and we will have to move ahead at some point in time so we're still playing catch-up from the last time we went through this scenario and if we go back again we're going to play even farther catch-up um so i i'm i'm looking at it from a standpoint of businessman looking at standpoint as taxpayer and the future of our county i'm having a difficult time figuring out where the dollars are going to come to support our infrastructure and i'm thinking about the future of our county system if you will without some sort of a tax increase so i'm i'm not convinced that we can do what we need to do for the future of frederick county without a some sort of a tax increase to offset some of the things that's my opinion thank you sir anyone else willing to share supervisor fisher mr chairman um this is a very troubling and difficult times trying to figure out because we really don't know we can sit here and hypothesize all night long we're not going to know where we're going really as far as revenues but budgets budgets are a guideline we've been we've already been through this once in 2008 you get a budget but when revenues change you change your budget accordingly i think to make any changes right now the significant things of three or five or ten percent you're talking about people you're not talking about toilet paper or paper towels or supplies you're talking about some real pain so i i think we need to move forward with some type of a budget i've been going over this scenario a i think unfortunately our employees are i think we've got some really good employees but i think for this year we're going to have to hold the line on salary wage increases if you do that in that scenario you can take those funds and transfer it into a budget line item for your six firemen and emts i think we should delete the recreation part-time staff at jordan springs i think we should fund the sor position at jordan springs if the school was operational i think we should budget for the sheriff investigator we should delete the sunnyside contractual services and nuestro that rtamp's won't you date leeron the SBB contract is Merry Christmas Mr. Shearing. I know, but there's a lot of business people out there that are drawing the line and saying, well, we're this far. We'll quit here. So anyhow, that's just a suggestion. We would try to support the hauling of recycling materials as much as we could. And looking at stormwater fees and inspection fees, I would raise those things to the hilt. Let the state challenge us. I think they need to go up because they reflect what's happening when we have to build these residences and stuff. And I think those fees need to be raised quite a bit. And with the shortage possibly of the meals and lodging, I think looking at what that is on an annual basis, if we lose a quarter of it, I would think fund balance can make up that at least for a year. Anyway. Didn't mean to get into so many details there. Now, the funding for the school system, I just want to remind this board that we cannot control the expenditures or allocations of the school system's budget. We can only give them a certain amount of funds. I do have respect for the difficult job that the schools have to do. I would like to think, but I haven't heard back, that the school board and administration would hold the line on pay raises. Of course, you have to love what the state does to them. It gives them a pay raise for teachers, but then only funds about, what is it, a third of it or something, and you know where the rest of that has to come from. So I could get on my bandwagon about the cost of school buildings, but I think everybody knows where I stand on that over the years. And my main interest is we built a new school. It would be sinful not to open that building. So I think we need to provide them. And I think if you look. On scenario A, you'd get about $2.7 million to open the Jordan Springs schools. But when I say that, you've got to understand, we give them the money, but how they choose to spend it, we've got no control over. But it certainly would make that known that that's what we would like them to use it for. And then I think at the end of the year, if any surplus funds they've got, we've normally given them that for their capital expenditures. So while I was the one that initiated the 5 cent tax increase, I think with the current scenario, somebody's going to have to do a lot of arm twisting for me to have a tax increase this year. That's where I am today and probably will be next week. And I am opposed to delaying any of this. It's just pushing stuff down the road that won't do us any good. We don't know what's coming. We need to get on with it. We need to get on with the program here, approve our budget. And if July 1 rolls around and we see things happening, I have, you know, with the staff, Mr. Tierney, our finance director, treasurer, I've got no problem that they're going to handle the situation and come and recommend how they would get the budget back in line. So, sorry, didn't mean to go on for so long. No, you did good, I think. So just for my own satisfaction, did I get this right? You wanted to pull the investigator back over, the SOR, the six firefighters, the environmental inspector was already there, the deputy director of security, IT was already there, and you wanted to strike the basic rep. Yep. Rec PT at Jordan Springs. Is that? Yes. Okay. So that basic rec at Jordan Springs has revenue associated. So up there in that three-point. Yes. There's revenue there. How much is that? It was close. Ballpark? It was close to $200,000. So it's kind of a. It's a wash. They cancel each other out. It's a wash. They might as well leave it in the way. Yes. Well, you blew $200,000. I'm sorry. Oh, it's helpful. Just another detail. I believe, and I apologize, I didn't bring my notebook with me, but I believe the money for Sunnyside, is simply the operating costs, and there's revenue associated with that, too, because we have tenants in there. So that's utilities and things of that nature. It's not redoing the building. It was property management, correct? Yeah, that would be in there as well. Okay, then I misinterpreted that. I stand corrected. Thank you. Okay. Can you go down through your list again? I'm sorry. So you're taking scenario A, and you are, and you, okay, so this 3%, that was that 3%, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's already been reduced by $150,000. So you're taking the 2% merit, and you're taking that out, and you're adding what? Well, the six firefighters, EMTs. Okay. The SRO position at Jordan Springs. Okay. If the school opens, the sheriff investigator. Okay. And then trying to cover the hauling. Okay. Okay. recycling cost, but that was a $300,000 number, and I'm not sure I covered that. Okay. To be close, you can always stagger those employees in fire and rescue if you need to. What I'd really like to put in but couldn't would be two floaters for firefighters and EMTs, but that can't happen. Other than, I feel that that probably would cut into the overtime, but not that much. And not right away. No. Well, and the other thing is on this hiring of these employees, I wouldn't start doing it until July 1, so that would delay the impact probably six weeks until you would hire folks. We couldn't start until July 1 anyway. But I'm saying if we waited and started the hiring process July 1. Oh, you started the process. It would delay. Yeah, we'll come back into that and see what we have. It would be a little conservative approach. You'd maybe get a month and a half. So I'm just saying. I mean, if that's what is being requested. We're going to try to determine that. I can tell you what that means. I just wanted to make sure that we were all sort of on the same page about where the discussion started. Okay. And thank you for your help because that's what we really need. We need you to tell us what we really can and can't do. Okay. Thank you. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Chairman. Yes. So, Supervisor Slaughter. Yes, Mr. Chairman. Just one comment in regard to Mr. Fisher's list. And one of the things that we had been talking about, and I think particularly in light of the position where the fire and rescue stations will be in, the assistance with your fuel this year may be more imperative than any year because their fundraising activities will be cut dramatically. So, I mean, if we're putting a list here of things that have. High importance, I think the fuel assistance would be extremely important to those organizations. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Dunn. I apologize. I have trouble hearing. We're fine. So, earlier, Mr. Shuffler, you had anticipated something like $6 million of new revenue coming into the county. I'm not holding you to it. That was about the right. So, we had the natural revenue increase of 4.7. Okay. And then we had the 5.5 increase from the tax rate that we were going to adjust. And then when we looked at permits and all the other increases that are kind of like driven by programs, whether it's parks programs, that was another 1.8. Okay. So, the parks program plus the natural 4.1 or 5, 6.2. I'm getting ballpark. My question. The 4.7 was shared. So, our portion of that 4.7 was 2. So, if you take the 2 and the 1.8 that I just said is other revenue, that's why we start at 3.8 in this scenario A. Okay. Does that make sense? Yes. Okay. Now, and I know you're not a SEER. What do you expect over the next 12 months or six months? Do you think that's a. Realistic number. I'll put it on the spot. I'm just asking. What do you think that realistically that 3.8 might be half or three quarters of that? Best guess. And you've been good on that. But I'm not. Best guess on what you think from a budget purpose we ought to anticipate. So, the 4.7 is mostly driven by property taxes and sales. We didn't have a lot of increase in sales tax because we increased it so much last year. So, a large portion. A large portion of that is driven by your property taxes. Of that 3.8. Which aren't as fragile normally as your market driven permits, sales tax, utility tax, meals tax, all those. If we had no tax increase, do you think that we might have someplace in the neighborhood of $3 million as opposed to 3.8? I'm not trying. I'm just trying to get an idea of how much additional revenue you think from natural growth and fees we would get this year over last year. Because of what we're going through now. How much more we get in 2020? No, how much more we get in 2021 because of this virus issue from your? Yeah, I don't think I can answer that one. I think that your property taxes revenue is probably more safe than your other. And your other, as we talked about, was 5% of the budget. So, that gives you more comfort than if it was that larger piece of the pie. One of the things that I'll just bring up. As we were talking. Mr. Tierney brought up the fact, you know, our landfill rates are up because we're dumping a lot of housing garbage in it. And our housing starts are up. So, we're seeing permitting fees and that kind of thing going up at high levels. The construction industry is a big part. If we didn't learn our lesson way back when, we better learn. We better, you know, don't go backwards. Let's take a look at it. The construction industry is a big part. The construction industry is a driving force in Frederick County. A lot of people don't like houses. A lot of people don't like people coming in. But it does drive our economy. It's jobs and it's income to the county that comes in. So, when you start talking about raising fees and putting the squeeze on the builder, you can't do a certain point. But then you get to a point when you drive yourself out of the market. And if you're looking around now, starting as low as $299,000, $300,000, that kind of thing. When you attach a fee, it only goes one place, to the bottom line. So, if you add $50,000 to every house, does that push the market where it's not Frederick County's market yet? And with this downturn that we're seeing now, my fear is, is that we're going to see a lot of people come in and say, you know, we're going to have to do this. We're going to have to do this. We're going to have to do this. We're going to have to do this. And I think that's the situation with the housing market. I hope it doesn't happen, but I'm just looking ahead and saying I think it's going to have a real strong downturn effect on the housing market. I just, if it stops in another month, we're probably okay. After that, I think our whole economy is in trouble. National economy is in trouble. Thank you, sir. I don't think Supervisor Wells meant to interrupt you. I'm sorry. You were a little slow. Mr. Wells, we're fine. We don't need those buttons. No, we're good. We don't need more buttons. We're fine. We're just having a conversation. So the reason I asked Mrs. Schiffler the comments, I'm just thinking out through, you know, scenarios. I'm leaning toward saying that for this year, this upcoming year, that we take the revenue that we had from last year, same dollar amount, the same dollar amounts go to the schools, the same dollar amounts go to the county. If that gives us then $3 million or whatever, an unknown figure, then come August, September, July, and sometimes down the road, we would have that money that we can then reallocate to where we have needs. But right now, if the revenue is unknown, then my thought process might be simply to go and say, fine, if in this year we had $100 going to the county and last year we had $100 going to the schools, put that there. The additional revenue comes in, see where we are with that revenue, and then, you know, allocate and see what happens with the state. I've heard that the state revenue will be down. I don't know that, but that's, you know, I heard that. So that's kind of what I'm trying to deal with if we have to come up with a budget. Mr. Graber's comments about making a cut, I'm open to that for the simple reason that I think that this quarter here is not reflective of what we're seeing. So if in the next few months we have significant hits, far better than not. Thank you. I think it's better to anticipate that now than to play catch up. And then, Mr. Wells, you know, for your comments about down the road, I'm saying this with a smile. Yeah. Join me on saying, you know, let's see if we can get some revisions on impact fees or capital cost recovery or something like that. I mean, we have to deal with the issues, I think, of additional revenue besides real estate taxes. And that's the only long term, not for this budget, but long term. It is long term. So I'm not thinking about that right now. Not that I've, you and I have discussed it many, many times. I'm just taking my pitch. But I'm just saying that so far down the road at this time, for this budget, when you, I mean, it may be a year down the road, but for this particular budget, it's kind of out the window. Right. We agree. So, and when we get down, I don't mind looking at cutting. I'm a businessman, and sometimes you have to do that. So I don't. But I don't know that we need to do that today on the stock market. I don't know. I don't think we can do that today on the start of this budget. I think we can do that as we look, as we go through the budget. So with Mr. Graber's numbers up there, you know, rather than starting out making the cuts before we really know where we are, I don't think I want to go there. But I don't mind looking at it as we see our adjusted income come in. Then that's when you look at it and say, hey, we've got to make some moves here. And it's people. That's what Gene said. It's nothing. It's not going to be a big deal. It's not going to be a big deal. It's going to be a big deal. And you're going to find paper towels and that kind of thing that are going to save you that kind of money. So you're looking at people. And those are tough cuts, you know, for anyone. So I say we hold on to that. It's a good discussion to have, but not make them right this part of this coming budget when we pass this budget. I'll just say that come July, August, September, we can have another conversation because we're going to go into another legislative session. For tonight, we'll have a discussion. For tonight and next week, I agree with you that that's not the solution for this week. But for next year, at least I'd like to have put that on the table for discussion. For discussion. Right. I'm fine with that. Supervisor Graver. Mr. Chairman, I really appreciate the comments that Supervisor Dunn made. If we were to hold the line and do Resolution B and have exactly the same amount of money this coming year as we had this last year, if there are additional revenues realized, it would allow us to really, you know, allow us to really fund some things that Mr. Fisher, Supervisor Fisher identified, the firefighters and some other things. I just, as I stated earlier, have a real hard time spending money and then saying, okay, now we're going to cut from this point forward once we've already got ourselves maybe into a hole. If we are able to hold the line, if revenues as we're getting into July and August look stable and we're able to see an increase above and beyond this year's budget, then at that point we can take those revenues and put those to the needs that we see. But I think that Supervisor Dunn's approach is a good approach. Thank you. Yes, sir. Other thoughts? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Fisher. One item of capital that I think we're all in agreement with, we want to make sure that stays on the table, the radios, the communication, I think it was 6.8, I think. Ms. Schiffler, is that right? 6.8. Those funds are not included in the resolution. Right. But I'm saying that's one of the things that we do. Okay. That's something we definitely want to do, though. But that's set aside money. There is funds set aside in the capital reserve that is equivalent, actually a little more than that. But we haven't even got all those numbers back from our RFP yet. Okay. Other thoughts? Mr. Chairman. Yes. Supervisor Schlatter. One last thought I had. I'm sitting here going through all of our budget information. And I do remember, Ms. Schiffler, Mrs. Green making her presentation regarding the DSS manager. And I feel very certain with everything that this world is going through at this time that that is still a very important funding necessity. And part of that in looking at this information, it looked like a percentage would come from the state, but the county then would need to. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. But the state should be in the state. And there is a number of other things that the state should be looking at. And I think that there is a lot of work to be done. And one of the things that we have to do as a city is to make sure that we are not in a state where we have to do it by ourselves. I'm not sure if there is a separate state. I think that we are going to need to fund a portion of that. So, if we add things to this list of things of importance, the most important things, again, as Mr. Fisher said, the firefighters, the EMCs. We also need to add the CSS manager. They are talking about making sure all of this information is processed in the right possible way. So, if we could add that to Ms. Schiffler's presentation, I think that would be a great idea. in the right possible way. So if we could add that to Mrs. Schiffler's list of seeing how we could balance all of this. And I guess the only other question I have in regard to scenario A, did we have a contingency fund at all built into scenario A? I'd have to look back. I think that we had 300 in the current year. So when there's not an increase, I think it still maintains 300. I'd have to check on that for sure. Okay, Cheryl, thank you so much. Thank you. All right, it's great discussion. I think we probably need to attempt to try to feel some type of direction. Supervisor Fischer stated his position on rate. Do you think we can try to reach a consensus on that one? Yes, sir. On capital funding, one of the items that Mrs. Slaughter talked about on capital funding was moving money so that the schools could still have capital funding for a list of items. I mean, I think that's important on that capital. Are you talking about the proffer funds? Yeah. Yes. They were advertised and they're part of this resolution in both scenarios. To consensus on rate. Supervisor Fischer stated his. Supervisor McCarthy, would you care to state your position on rate? I would hold the rate at its current rate. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Dunn? I'd hold the position at the same rate as it currently exists. Current rate. And Supervisor Graver? Current rate, sir. Okay, so that's a majority. So. That's what we want to use as a basis. Okay. So. So. Yes, go ahead. Okay, so I'm working on. That's the question I want to try to answer, the one you're about to ask. So I'm working on a resolution that's pretty much based on B here, which is our current tax rate. So should we begin? The resolution would be based on the 61 cent tax rate, which is the one cent, it's B, it's in pink. And then, am I supposed to be taking scenario A and try to address some of the things that were discussed tonight, or is that for something at a later date? Well. We're gonna try to answer that question. Okay. My personal preference would be to see if you can address the comments that were made this evening, which looks to me like seven pieces of paper. Oh, you'll say that. That certainly will. Okay. people, if my list is correct, and adding the fire and rescue fuel. See how close you can get to that. So I had six firefighters I was adding. Yes, I'm sorry. My number was incorrect. Okay. I had an SRO. It's seven line items. Okay. You had six firefighters, SRO. SRO, and I have a DSS benefit manager, and I have a sheriff investigator. That's what I wrote down as what was requested. Okay. And already in is the IT deputy security? Correct. And the environmental inspector. Correct. And the basic rep. Correct. I'm sorry? The environmental inspector is already in scenario A. So you wouldn't be adding that. Those. Environmental inspector and the IT deputy for security are in the. Right. Right. We're not adding those. Right. Got it. My head was right. My words were wrong. And then I'm also trying to look at the recycling contract. Is that what. Our community will be very disappointed if we can't continue that. Okay. I would let it go before I'd let one of these people we're talking about fall off. But. Let's try. See where you can get. Okay. We can. Can you do that and send it out to the board? You all tell me whether this scenario makes sense to you. If I'm asked to do that, send it out to us as a board. Get us some feedback. Go ahead. Well, we can certainly try and make it work. But, you know, I think it's going to be very challenging to get everything you've asked for. And I think it's going to be very challenging to get everything we've asked for. I would agree. Let's see where we can get. We will certainly attempt to do that. See what other possibilities exist. My goal would be to have a consensus by Friday for the agenda. Go ahead. Supervisor Dunn. On that list that you have. And I thought. You're not adding, are you? I thought. I could be wrong. I thought, Mr. Chair, you had 400,000 in contingencies. In this current budget. But one of the items that we talked about was IT. And Mr. Varner made the comment that if we get hit with a malware attack, et cetera, that that person is really critical. So I'm not saying that we have to have it. But I'd like Mr. Tierney to go through the thought process. It's in there. It's in there. It's in there. It started in there. So it wasn't added because it was already in there. All right. That's why we hadn't talked about it. It was already in. Supervisor Gray? Just ask one question. Shirley? Sean? You're asking one question. No, no. I was just going to ask. Could I just. Before you go. Go ahead. Just so I know where I'm at. Right. All right. We've taken part of scenario A and scenario B. And combined some. Is that what we're doing? So we took. So this is what I understand. I understand that we took scenario A. We took out the merit cola. Right. And we added positions and recycling. And we're trying to see if that works. Okay. So we're on A, really. Pretty much. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's where we are. Yes. That's where I thought we were. I just wanted to be sure that I was on. Thank you, Mr. Graber. Is that where everybody else is too? Just. We're trying to get all the way to the answer. Apologize. I just want to make sure we're all on the same page. I also had fuel for a volunteer fire. Yes. Oh, yes. Yeah. What? Fuel for the volunteer. The fuel assistance program. I'm just saying what I heard. Put it on the list. Yeah. Did hear it. From two of us. So that's like. 200,000. Close to 200. 200. That's what I bought. Yes. Okay. We'll put it on the list. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Yeah. I'm sorry. You're fine. You were looking for consensus there. I could support everything under scenario A with the exception of all the add-ons that have been added on this evening. So the six firefighters, the hauling and recycling, the DSS manager, the recycling contract, all those things I could not support because I believe that we need to keep our budget similar to last year. And if there are additional revenues, then we come back and if that's in September, if that's in January and look at these needs and address them. But I cannot support anything other than what is in the original scenario A as is presented. So if you wanted to know, it's not going to change between now and next Wednesday. Thank you. We're going to try to get it. But thank you. Other comments? No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. You said everything else in scenario A. I would not support the pay raise. And I know that that's going to free up a little bit of money and I'm okay with that. Oh, yeah. That's the whole idea. I was using it for any of those things that I added was trying to make it balanced. I'm not trying to increase any more. Which is like getting a little tight. That's a million dollars. I understand. Yeah. Okay. All right. Other comments? A general comment. On fire and rescue, I know that the fire and rescue community has some concerns on fundraising because of what we're going through. So the bingo games aren't occurring. The sales of products and services, you know, which generate are not occurring. I know they made a request for additional money. I'm not there either. I think we as a community have to be cognizant of that and that those volunteers are volunteers. Their equipment is all paid for by themselves. So when they have an ambulance coming to your house, their ambulance is not a county paid ambulance. It's $250,000, $300,000, et cetera. So for those of you listening, maybe you're aware of the fact that a donation to the volunteer fire and rescue system is appropriate. And then we as board members, I don't know how to address. But if their funding goes down, it has a direct effect on us. And so if there's a way to address that in a constructive way, I think it's just something we need to address. That's one comment. The other comment is, at least in my looking at this stuff for the last four years I've been on the board, the only growth people-wise has been fire and rescue, sheriff's office, and social services. Everything else has been pretty flat. And so that's just part of where we are. I don't think. I don't think. I don't think. I don't think. I don't think. I don't think you can make further reductions in those areas where the population has increased 50% since 2000. So that's the tension we're under. So far behind. I didn't mean to interrupt. You're fine. But the fire and rescue issue, if that has an effect on operations, I think we might have to address that, you know, come the fall, if we go through a scenario where we take this, in this coming year, the same dollars we had last year, and then decide where to allocate the additional dollars that will come in. Mr. Chairman, go ahead. My comment was going to be that we've been trying really hard to get moving back forward in public safety. And so that has been our focus. And we had no choice on social services. The Holy City sent it down on us. So we're responding as best we can. Other comments? Just a general comment to the public and my fellow board members. My rule of thumb is always Frederick County, not Bob Wells and not anybody on the board, or not my friends sitting out there, this IG. You know, this is what I want you to do. This will help me out. If it's best for Frederick County, then that's the thing we should do. And we're a family. And our school system and our administrative system here, our county services, our police, our fire, we're all in this together. And you keep hearing it on TV. We're together. And we can make it through this together. But we have to work together. And I encourage us to do that. I encourage all of us to do the best we can to be positive with everybody we come in contact with. And as we go through our work sessions, to do the best we possibly can to reach what's best for Frederick County with the funds we have available to do that with. And look to the future. Because there will be a future. I am an optimist. I do believe there will be a future. I agree completely. I mean, we're going to get through this. Yes. And we need to try to, again, move forward. So we managed to decide on a rate. Do we need to try to reach a consensus? Or are we okay with seeing what finance comes up with about addressing what comments were made? I have heard. I have heard comments that we don't want to add anything to column A. Other comments? I want to see what finances analysis renders and have it out to us. And then we comment back is what I'd prefer to see as to try to reach a consensus this evening when we don't really have a set of numbers in front of us. But I'm asking. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes. I concur. I mean, I'd like to see numbers laid out so we can have a chance to think about it. I'm not looking to have a budget decided today on X dollars. I'd like to see what, you know, Mrs. Schiffler can do on doing that. And chew on it. And then, you know, I know we can't talk to each other collectively, but at least we can respond to admin and go from there. So that was one way to address that. And then the other thing. The other comment that I think we all just have to recognize, and some of us are in the private sector, is that there are a lot of people in the private sector. I mean, in Red Bull alone, I know four or five families that have been told they will not have a job in two weeks. You have a husband and wife, both fired. You have another family, a daughter supporting a family, gone. So those in the private sector are taking some big hits. People that take a job. Take care of other people. No, you can't come see me because you might have a virus. So I think that in the public sector here, if, not ideal, but, you know, if there has to be a slight reduction in even salaries from 100% to 99% or 98% to get the additional dollars that we need for elsewhere, that's, for me, a reasonable scenario based upon what's occurring in the private sector in which you have wholesale shutdowns in some areas. So I'll just throw that thought as a comment. That falls exactly in our discussion about fire and rescue. I mean, they had three major requests. We know they need their help. And we know they're suffering like everyone else is in the current situation. We can try to see if we can pick one that serves everybody equally. And maybe we can't get there. We'll see. Now, what I would ask is you want a chewing time, try to chew quickly. You can't get there until you've got a great deal of risk. So, you know, I think it's a good idea to have some sort of a time limit if you're going to get there. And then you can't come in and say, oh, we're going to have a fire. And that's not going to happen. You can't come in and say, well, I'm going to have a fire. You can't come in and say, I'm going to have a fire. Just quickly. And no, I'm serious. Let's move, we need a resolution. And it should go out with the agenda. I mean, our community deserves the opportunity to look that over as well. If she gives us—seems like Mrs. Shepherd gives us numbers, I'll look at that. And you'll see the numbers together And I could come out with multiples same day if it was, yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, your resolution won't be impacted by those details. I mean, the, the categories are broad enough where we have what we need for the resolution. You have already? Yes. Excellent. Okay. But we want yes, sir. We have two other board members on the line. I would love to hear your comments. Supervisor Slaughter, Supervisor McCarthy, I think Supervisor Wells is speaking to you two. Yes, hi, Supervisor Wells. I'm sorry. Go ahead, Doug. Thank you, Supervisor Slaughter. I'm in agreement with what the majority has said. Let's take a look at what the numbers look like under scenario A. From the beginning of the budget process, I leaned more towards scenario B. And when I say scenario B, not so much the allocation of the funds, but just rather than artificially split the revenues between the county side and the school board side, that we take a look at the whole budget and the priorities and the needs before we take the surplus. And. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. So personally, I'd like to still stick to that. But if the consensus is scenario A, then I can certainly get behind scenario A and look at it. I'd just like to keep our options open, knowing that we're going into sort of the unknown at this point. That's my two cents. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Slaughter? Mr. Chairman, yes, the only comment that I would have in regard to that with scenario A, that would leave $2.7 million that would go to the schools, which is, if I recall, almost the exact amount in our budget presentation from the schools to open the Jordan Spring Elementary School. Is that correct? I think very close. I think the number was 2.8. I think that's right. Okay. And so when we talk... When we talked about this resolution wasn't really going to change, that was as long as everybody agreed with scenario A. If I shift to B for some reason, it does change. So I'm just letting you know that. Yes. All right. I just want to make sure that they have the resources to open the elementary school because that is of highest priority. Our schools are already overcrowded, and we have invested a considerable amount of money. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. All right. Okay. All right. Okay. and so forth and those other priorities which would have been covered with a tax increase if there's some way to balance that by not allocating salary increases to our employees and accomplishing the other necessities that our public safety people need. I think that we have consensus to look at that and contemplate and respond back. Is that fair? Yes. Okay. So in your board packet next week will be the resolution that's based on scenario A. Okay. And then you will get information from me on our allocations of which you want to be added. But it doesn't impact the resolution next week. It's the same. And you're talking about this scenario A. That scenario A with all the add-ons. Yes. With the add. With the add. Yeah. And we will try real hard to reach consensus for you. And for the rest of staff and for each other and the community prior to Friday. Okay. And so you will see this scenario or this resolution with this column deleted. Because this was a tax increase column. Yes. Okay. I think I have what I need. And we'll work on what you requested tonight. Okay. Okay. So. Is there anything else that we can try to. Get staff. That's what we are hoping to accomplish this evening. Okay. To me, like the only thing we have left are Supervisor's comments. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graber. Before we get into that, I have a question for Mr. Tierney, if you may. Please. Just looking at the resolution or the budget resolutions that you presented tonight. This is the first. That I've gotten to see it. So forgive me for asking a question here about it. But at the very end, it says, be it for the resolve that the budget for the Shawnee-Line Sanitary District will be appropriated at a later date. And is not included in this budget resolution. Would we. Am I understanding this correctly? We would need to move on that before July 1st. Is that under this budget? Yes. You would have to adopt a resolution prior to July 1st for funding. Okay. Good enough. So this resolution would not address them in any way. And they could make their decision up. As written, no. It does not fund them in any way. Thank you much. It leaves the rates the same. It does set the rates because it's on the taxable. Excellent. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Anyone else? Supervisor's comments. Mr. Chairman, I ask for that. Supervisor Graber. Since I got to give my presentation earlier, I have no further comments. I just wanted to make sure that there was a time allotted to me to give the presentation. Understood, sir. So I appreciate the board allowing me the opportunity to do so. Okay. Anyone else? Well, I think that we've made some progress. I think we had a good discussion. I want to encourage everyone to continue to do the right thing, to look after each other, to be safe and healthy. Next, Supervisor Wells. Mr. Chairman, I would move to adjourn. I wish to adjourn. Is there a second? Second. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. We'll stand adjourned. Thank you. Supervisor McCarthy, Supervisor Slaughter, we'd love to hear comments on how this worked for you all. Please. It actually worked very well. It worked very well. I know that Mr. Varner and I have worked through test runs today, and hopefully we won't have to go through this method of doing business. But in the events that we do. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Great job, great job everybody, and we've been parsley Agricola all the weekend, which we're going to make a great putting series this March. So we're going to include age in our annual update for a number of months and we're going to look for schools and library Internet stores for the.
