Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2024-01-24
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=208
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The January 24, 2024 Board of Supervisors for Frederick County is hereby called to order. Our invocation today is we're fortunate to have Pastor Dennis Smith of Valley Bible Church. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we just thank you for giving us your Son, Jesus Christ, dying on the cross for our sins to show us what real sacrifice is. We thank you for our servicemen and women who gave up their lives so that we could have the freedom to be able to meet in such places like this. We pray that the decisions and choices that are made this evening will be the same as they were in the past. We pray that the decisions and choices that we have made in the past will be the same and will benefit this county and all the people here for generations to come in a way that glorifies you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you very much, Pastor. Ms. Vice Chairman? I stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all of its peoples, as it stands, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all of its peoples. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all of its peoples. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all of its people. That brings us to adoption of the agenda. How would the Board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? B級. everyone in favor of the agenda this is a roll call vote or no just consent is roll call so everyone in favor of adoption of the agenda as presented say aye anyone opposed thank you the agenda is adopted next is citizen comments and if you'd like to patty Solenberger get up here early this time hello everyone thank you so much to each of you for serving and I would like to comment about the Planning Commission and the reduction in size of the Planning Commission I know I sent each of you an email and I'm not gonna go over that but in talking to actual members of the Planning Commission one of the things that they have emphasized to me is that it is so helpful to have two people per district because they're able to learn if they come in new they're able to learn from the person that's already been serving and there's a proverb that says in the multitude of counselors there's safety and that word counselor means someone who has done the work and is helping you to see the direction of which way to go and I think if we reduce the size of the Planning Commission to one member per district we actually lose the influence of the seasoned person that's already been on the planning committee and the planning commission and the planning on the planning commission. And I think we lose that experience. We lose that ability to educate the person that's coming in new. And it's really, it would be, I think for our county, the size of our county, it's a growing, we're still growing and we have so much in the future with regards to planning that we need to be prepared for, that it would be a shame to lose the seasoned members of this commission. And so for that reason and the other reasons that I shared with you in the email, I would like to ask you to please vote no to decreasing the size of the planning commission. Thank you very much. Charles Markert. Good evening. My name is Charles Markert. I'm on the planning commission for the Redbud District. I'm a civil engineer, 30 years with the Naval Facilities Engineering Command. I'm asking you to vote no on the reduction of the planning commission size. I know I promised to say, I was asked and I agreed to resign from the commission should this resolution pass. And I'd like to just state that I'm gonna put that on hold until I hear more. I'm gonna talk more about what's going on. The justification for reducing it, just because other commissions have seven members, it may well be they're missing the boat by not having the benefits we have by having a larger commission, more eyes on it. So I like to think if it ain't broke, don't fix it. It's working just fine. Citizen participation is an issue. There's a little difference between involvement and comments. And I'd like to state that the more we have involved beyond just someone getting up and saying a comment, having to vote on something, having to get to agreement with the committee, take some work. Smaller government doesn't mean fewer citizens involved. It does mean fewer citizens involved. It does mean fewer citizens involved. It does mean fewer citizens involved. Fewer agencies and fewer regulations. So telling us that we don't need to have that many because we can get our information from the citizen comments doesn't pass muster. The smaller commission is easier to manage. It's easier for developers to influence. It's easier for politicians to control. We all know we're all not angels. So we need to have more eyes on us the better. I view us as a broker, honest broker, between the developer, the planning staff, the business owners, the land owners, the board of supervisors, that we don't have a stake in it. Other than we've agreed to provide our time and intelligence for the greater good. The purpose is really to help the process of orderly growth. And we've got rapid growth going on right now. So we need to have all hands on deck to deal with that. The cons about reducing the size, we have less discussion. We need to do a little more. And it appears that the government is pushing back the citizens involvement in this and that's not good. The mentoring from all of the people that have experience on the commission is so helpful for us newbies. I've only been there two years. I have two years more to go in this one. They have broad experience, better knowledge. They know the history and they help us to make better decisions in the end. So I urge you to vote no. Thank you. James Molder. James Molder. As James comes forward, I forgot to mention, please give your name and magisterial district. And you'll get beeped after three minutes. So try and keep within three minutes. Name's James Molder. I'm with Back Creek District. I'm here about the Planning Commission. I'm asking that you vote no tonight. Learning about our history of our forefathers or our country. They set up our government to move slow for a reason. They didn't want our government to make too many laws, to control too many people. They made it slow for that reason. If we have a larger Planning Commission, I feel like he have more people with more input, some people Jess mentioned. Go ahead., Dr. hero. So I'm kind of kind of asking you to vote. Six people, seven people may not have the answers for. Thirteen people may have the answers. Thirteen people are going to see things differently than seven people are. So I think that keeping the Board of Planning to a larger number, you're going to have a greater input and a diverser input of people. And also, looking at this agenda tonight, when I flip through, it's like this page, this page, all has to do with the Planning Commission. That's a lot of work. I know that they're not paid a great big salary or anything to do that, but when you reduce the number of people working, that puts more... strengths on the few people that are working. So let's keep the Board at 13 people. Thank you. Gene Hawkins. I'm Pastor Gene Hawkins. I live in the Gainesboro District. Good evening, honorable members of the Board. Whereas we've been given a representative form of government by our founding fathers, one of the main tenets being no taxation without representation. We have to ask ourselves how reducing the number of representation on the Planning Commission supports this ideal. Whom, may I ask, does this serve? And why is this even being considered unless proportionately we're going to cut the citizens' taxes by half? If it's merely because our neighboring counties do so, then conformity is a very poor reason. The members of the Planning Commission, all bring a diverse wealth of knowledge, experience, and insight into the long-range planning, development, and land use of our county's diverse needs and conditions. In a sense, the Planning Commission are the far-sighted visionaries for we the people. To reduce their number by half is akin to plucking out one of our eyes and expecting to still see clearly. And just because my neighbors are vision impaired does not justify visually impairing myself. If hindsight is 20-20, then what value is to be gained or what price will we the people be forced to pay due to a decision made without merit to willingly reduce our vision for the future of Frederick County by half? This would be a very poor decision, and I respectfully ask you to vote no. In closing, let's consider the wisdom of Solomon, who was considered to be the wisest man that ever lived. In Proverbs 11-14, he says, Where no counsel is, the people fall. But in the multitude of counselors, there is safety. So I have to ask you, have we now elevated our thinking and judgment above the wisdom and counsel? And we can now take this time to share with you the wisdom and counsel provided by the Word of God. Thank you. Tim Stowe? Tim Stowe? Good evening. I'm Tim Stowe from the Redbud District, and I also currently serve as the chairman of the Planning Commission. I'd first like to say thank you for what you do. I understand it takes time away from your family, from your other activities, and from the people you serve, and I appreciate the investment you make in Frederick County and its citizens. As chairman of the Planning Commission, I've gotten to see a number of things there in that body that have been very eye-opening to me because for years I stood on this side of the podium and said, hey, you know, give me something. But to be there in the public eye and to have to make decisions is a whole different kettle of fish. And what I've found is the mentorship that the senior people on the Planning Commission provide to the younger people, like Mr. Markert, who said he's younger, is invaluable. You see, we get people who come in from the agricultural community, and they don't necessarily understand zoning or the comprehensive plan or the various tools that we have that we work with on the Planning Commission. So having somebody that's been there 10 years, several members have been there 20 years, and to walk those younger members through the process is very helpful. It's very helpful to them in a way that benefits the citizens of Frederick County. It brings efficiencies and it brings alignment with the goals that this body sets for the county and for the Planning Commission to take action on. The second thing I would mention is timing. I think the timing that we're in right now, the time we're in right now, is incredible. The growth in this county is enormous. And I had the privilege today. I had the privilege to look at a report that the Weldon Cooper Center produced in February of last year, and they say between 2020, 2022, we grew at 3.8%. I mean, that's huge. That affects everything here. And to have the full Planning Commission with the diversity of backgrounds that we have is very valuable in looking at proposals that come forward before they come to you to make sure. We're planning efficiently and effectively and safely for the future growth of this county as development proposals come forward. We need more input, not less, from commissioners, and I would encourage you to vote no on the resolution for reducing the size of the Planning Commission. Thank you very much. Kay Dawson. Thank you. I'm Kay Dawson, Redbud District. I was on the Planning Commission for several years, and it was very useful for me to have someone who had different experiences than I did. The first person that was also on Redbud District with me was Chris Moen, and he worked for Loudoun County. He worked in the zoning department. He knew all the ins and outs. And my background was construction, preservation. General good common sense, that sort of thing, property rights. So we were a good balance. And then Charles came on, and he's an engineer, so that was once again a good balance. And I think that's critically important. The other thing is that the Planning Commission sort of does your homework for you on these issues. So if you really want to know what's going on, you could listen to the recording of our meetings. I often send supervisors information. I don't know if you've heard of it, but I've been doing that for a long time. And I think it's really important. I think it's really important. And I think it's really important that you have a good understanding of the information and research that I had done. So I think the number of people on the Planning Commission is really important. Thank you. Molly Brannon. Good evening. I'm Molly Brannon from Back Creek District. Full disclosure, I'm also on the Planning Commission, and I'm asking you all to vote against reducing the number of people on the Planning Commission. I think that's really important. Thank you. I'm Molly Brannon from Back Creek District. I'm also on the Planning Commission. And I think it's really important that you have a good understanding of the information and research that I had done. I'm Molly Brannon from Back Creek District. I'm also on the Planning Commission and I'm asking you all to vote against reducing the size of the Planning Commission. As a sitting member of the Planning Commission, I don't think it's wise or beneficial for a county to shrink the size of it when we are growing as the fastest growing county in the state of Virginia. I understand Loudoun and Fairfax have less than we do, but they're finished growing already. And I find from being on the Planning Commission, we have a very diverse group of people. We have some that are very active, some that have been there for years. We have retired engineers and retired people in power that bring a wealth of information and history of how we got here. We have younger people that are in the development right now, so they know the needs right now. Now granted, they have to recuse themselves more often, but they bring information to the table. They have people like me that I'm a voice that I've moved here from Loudoun County to get away from Loudoun County. I don't want to repeat the mistakes that Loudoun County made. I also am a proponent for the middle class person just living on their land, wanting to make it, and that's not putting so many regulations in place that the small business owner can't survive. So I bring that to the table. I have a computer science engineering background, so not anything to do with building and planning. But... And I think that's a good thing. Thank you. I think it's very valuable. My counterpart from Back Creek, she used to appraise homes and buildings. As a matter of fact, she was my appraiser. It's nice that we're both getting the same information. I have my background, she has hers. We talk. We bounce ideas. We try to talk what's the short-term effect, what's the long-term effect. So I think it would be a huge mistake to reduce the planning commission in a time that we are exploding in growth and need as many eyes on it as possible to not make the mistakes of Loudoun County. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on this issue or on any other issue on the agenda today? If not, then I close citizen comments and we move to the consent agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda. I would move for approval of the consent agenda as submitted. We have a motion. Do we have a second? I'll second it. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? This requires a roll call vote. So I'll go down the line. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye. And the consent agenda is adopted. Next. Board of Supervisor comments. Are there any? Hearing none, we'll move on to... Oh, I do want to make a couple of comments. I've received a number of emails and calls from people of all different interests in the county. They are concerned that with some changes on the board, including the changes in the policy, that the board will not be able to continue to make the consent agenda. I'm not sure if that's a good idea. I'm not sure if that's a good idea. I'm not sure if that's a good idea. Okay. Thank you. I believe that the Council has made a few comments, including the Chairman, that some of the issues the county was made aware of last fall might get dropped, and I wanted to mention that for my part, absolutely not. All the things in play that we've been asked to investigate, the County Administrator and I have been meeting. I'll mention a few. A gentleman spoke and received some positive comments after the meeting on reviewing why we have penalties for people who bring vehicles into the county. into the county, we do have a requirement currently that you notify the county or you can receive a fine for not doing so. But in his case and many others, they had notified the DMV and thought that was enough. We got the information from the DMV, they received their bill on time, so there was no problem that it occurred. Nonetheless, he received a fine. So that's one citizen who came and got a ball rolling. We do feel responsible to everyone and every issue bring to us. So we are still studying that. There are some state laws that apply to what we can do, what our options can be that the county administrators are investigating. It's why we weren't able to bring it up within a meeting or two, but we're doing that. Another one I wanted to mention, I've received a lot of correspondence from an organization we haven't heard from in at least six months here to the board, the Two for Two Foundation. They have been working independent of the county of trying to build an aquatic center and do that. Their goal is to do it without raising our taxes to get donors. And we haven't heard from them in a while. So I'm certainly amenable to hearing whatever they've been able to accomplish in the last six months. So any issue you can think of, please feel free to remind us, but it's not our intent to put anything under the, sweep anything under the rug or drop the ball on any matter before us. Thank you very much. Thank you. We move on now. To item eight, county officials. We have a resolution regarding reducing the size of the planning commission from 13 to seven members. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, is this the time we discuss? Okay. Oh, I make a motion that we, I make a motion that we deny that we do not do this resolution. So your resolution is not to reduce the size of the planning commission. That's correct. Second. Not to adopt this resolution. We have a motion and a second. Discussion. Mr. Chairman, as former chairman of planning commission, I spent four years on the planning commission too, as chairman. Several of the citizens touched on exactly the perfect points. I'm going to, for me personally, when I went on the planning commission, I had rose Marston who had been on the planning commission who took me under his wing. We went out and visited this County. We learned. I learned so much from that gentleman and from people like Charlie triplet. And I watched Charlie triplet do the same thing with Jason Aikens. I think, that several folks up here tonight hit it right on the head. You've got so many different walks of life here representing this county, and I know there are committees for citizens to be on, but the job of the Planning Commission is an advisory board to the Board of Supervisors. And our job, when I was on the Planning Commission and continues on, was to bring out as many points, as many options as we can, depending on whatever it is that we were working on for the Board of Supervisors, to give the Board of Supervisors that opportunity to have that information. A perfect example is what you're looking up here, Western Frederick Land Use Plan. We had the NELUP. The NELUP took a year and a half, and it was outstanding how many people jumped in and did the homework on the NELUP. And I just think that reducing the size of this commission is really not a benefit to this county. I don't care how many counties have five, six, or ten people. I really don't. I just care about Frederick County. So that's my opinion. Thank you, Supervisor Jewell. I let you go ahead because you made the motion, but in the future, if we could wait until I recognize so we don't talk over each other, that'd be great. I believe in a person with your hand up with Vice Chairman Ken Slaughter. Thank you. I appreciate all the comments tonight from our planning commissioners and others who spoke on behalf of maintaining the size of the commission. For me, we have talked about this issue for several years, either in board retreats. We had this issue come up probably a year or two ago where we discussed it very briefly. But at this time, particular time that we're looking at and adopting our organizational procedures at the beginning of a new year, and I will say I don't have a dog in the fight because one of the commissioners from Stonewall, his term comes up and he will be resigning at that point. So in looking at all of that, I thought this may be an opportunity for us to have discussion about this issue. And I do think it's important, and I appreciate all the comments that were made this evening as well. But I do believe that the timing of all of this presents a unique opportunity to evaluate the size of our planning commission, the number of terms expiring, the resignations that have already been received so far. To be clear, I want to be clear that staff was asked to look into this and provide us with a report, which they did on December 28th, outlining the various commissions throughout the council, including the Council of the Commonwealth. And we, Frederick County, were an outlier in that. I've looked at the report that was provided, and I've got a few comments I just want to share along the way. But in these comments, you will see various localities with a million-plus population that maybe have 10 commissioners. We have 13, and we're less than 100,000 in population in Frederick County. So, just a few comments. The vast majority of the time, planning commission members from the same district vote the same way. That, I had asked for that information. In the past two years, there's only been a few outliers, primarily when we took up the Northeast Land Use Plan and one of the most recent rezonings in the Stonewall District. In the past five years, attendance has been between 80 and 90%. Some individual members have been closer to 70% during a given year. This does not account for when members were present, but recuse themselves from voting on certain applications. Any reduction would result in a $3,600 annual savings per member reduced. Additional travel training costs would be deferred, meals for work, IT services, laptops, et cetera. The Comprehensive Plan and Programs Committee Development, Review and Regulations Committee, and the Historic Advisory Board Committee, which regularly provide recommendations to the planning commission, have 18 citizen members from differing backgrounds to ensure a wide variety of perspectives. I've thought really hard about bringing this forward, and I'm glad I have so that we could have the discussion. I thought about what the pros and cons might be, for us having to reduce the board or the commission from 13 to seven. All I could really come up with is a diversity of viewpoints, which I think is valuable. Some of you have mentioned this evening mentorships as well, which I think is certainly valuable. But it is likely that this could be achieved at the subcommittee level. The Comprehensive Plan and Planning Commission and the DRRC and the required public involvement that we have in this area has been a key component to all planning commission business. We have public hearings on each of these items this evening. We saw the number of pages. And I know personally from the Stonewall district that I know that the citizens in Stonewall are not shy about reaching out and advising me on various issues and how they would like to see them represented. So I would ask my colleagues, what are we really getting out of this $1,600 annually? We ask county administration and departments to justify their expenditures annually. So rather than view this as what do we get out of a reduction, I would ask, what are we getting out of having 13 people provide recommendations on a fraction of what this board of seven members considers? Further, what makes us different from other counties in Virginia with 10 times our population and substantially less planning commissioners? With the voluntary resignations we have already received in Stonewall and Shawnee, and then those contingent resignations in Redbud, Gainsborough, and Opecan, this seems like that if we ever were gonna take up this issue, that this would be the time certainly to do it. I don't think that it would ever be any easier to take this up. So with that, I just wanted to prepare those remarks and share with you why I thought it would be good for us to have this discussion. Thank you, Vice Chairman. Supervisor Lockridge? Yes, I just wanted to comment that I originally was not opposed to this. The thought of saving money seemed like that was good. However, the more I thought about it and the more I've talked, in fact, I spoke with Charlie Triplett for an hour and a half on Friday, and he was willing, like you said, willing based on a resolution to resign. However, his term was terminated. His term is not up until 2025. And when I went in thinking more, because he's served for over 20 years, and while he's willing to step down, forcing these people to step down when they are representing, and they're the citizens that represent our voice. Mr. Stowe referenced an article, and I actually had it printed out. I don't know if it's the same one, but it is referenced from Cormac Dodd in the Winchester Star on December 7th. And it says, from 2020, I will not be able to do this. It says, from 2020 to 2022, Frederick County's population ticked up 3.6%, making it the fastest growing locality in the Winchester region, and the eighth quickest growing in the Commonwealth. With that being said, I'm after a smaller government, but I don't necessarily think that fewer citizens on there is achieving. I think we need that citizen perspective. So I'm opposed to doing this now. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion? Hearing none, so this is a motion to reject the resolution that was proposed. So an aye vote means that you do not want to reduce the size of the planning commission. So we'll take a roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Lerro. Aye. The chair votes aye, and so the motion to deny passes. We will not reduce the size of the planning commission at this time. Next, item nine, appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. Nine A. our first appointment to the Hanley Regional Library Board. It's filling an unexpired four-year term, so our appointment today would only last through November 30 of 2024 of this year. We had one applicant quickly, but I asked for a delay so that we could advertise to the public, and we received two more interested citizens. Fitting with our last vote, I believe we should advertise as much as possible and invite as much citizen application to these boards as possible, and thank you, Board, for allowing this to be delayed for two weeks. We now have three people recommended before us. I did consult. I had an email forwarded to all of you today. Hopefully you managed to see it, but I'll just cover it real quickly in case you didn't. I checked with the director of the library board who was fine with the and recommended the original resume. I asked if he and the library board had had time to look at all three candidates that are now applied. They happen to have had a library board meeting last night. They looked over the resumes. They did not want to choose between them. They thought that we had three excellent candidates that they liked equally, and in fact, they were delighted on the library board. I don't know if they've had multiple people apply to fight over one seat before, so thank you, citizens. Thank you, citizens of Frederick County, for getting so involved. We've had many applicants to many of our boards. So, with all three before us, how would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I'd like to put Lisa Kellan and her name forward as well. I don't know if he put it as a motion. I didn't really hear it that way. So, as a motion. A motion? Okay. I apologize. So, we have a motion for Jay Foreman. Do we have a second? Second. Any discussion? Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, Jay Foreman's award-winning author. He's written 17 books. Jay has also spoken at the Hanley Library several times on occasions. He's conducted leadership training for both Hanley Library branches and the other branches. He has participated in the library functions, reading to children. Jay's been involved in the community, and I think he's an excellent choice for this position. Thank you. Any more comments? Mr. Chairman, while I agree with Mr. Jewell that he's well qualified, I can't possibly support him. You know, one of the first things I remember reading as I watched him, that was when I really got involved at the school board level, and for that reason, I think it was unanimous at the time but for deep equity. And so I just worry what that aspect would bring to our library, and it's something I don't want to touch in our schools. And I don't think we need to. So for that reason, I can't support that. Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would concur with your e-mail that we got from Mr. Huddie, and I heard that he said, I don't think we'd be able to look at the national tombs or the oblivion but they're really important to the university. So I don't think we might need to do that. That's a good point. Thank you. your email that we got from Mr. Huddy. I had independently read the resumes of the three candidates prior to getting that information yesterday, and I concurred with Mr. Huddy before the fact in that all three of the candidates are highly qualified. And so we're just fortunate to have three really good candidates step forward. Thank you. Any other discussion? I'd like to echo Mr. Jewell's comments. Jake Foreman has the expertise and background. Jake Foreman also opposed me two years ago in an election. But I think he's the best qualified person for this. So we have some policy differences, but for the library, I think he'll do an excellent job. I'll support him. Thank you. Do we have any other comments? So I'll just say Mr. Foreman is qualified. We have our other candidates are also excellent candidates for the library board. I did have some concerns myself. I don't know Mr. Foreman personally, but I do know on his time in the school board, he had supported, been one of many members to support bringing deep equity to the schools. And he also voted to continue some of the measures in the schools during the COVID-19. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Supervisor Lockridge. No. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Chair votes no, but the appointment passes. So Mr. Foreman is appointed to the library board. Aye. Our next item is an appointment to the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission. It's a vacant four-year term of an elected official due to the open seat from the retirement of Supervisor Sean Graber, who had served on that commission. I have nominated Supervisor Robert Liero to that commission. And do I have a second? Second. Second. Discussion? Any discussion? This is an easy one. Very good. Roll call vote. So this is to approve and appoint Robert Liero to that commission. Supervisor Liero. Abstain. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. And I encourage Mr. Leroy to vote for himself. He's a fine person. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The Chair votes aye. And whether he wanted or not, Supervisor Liero is appointed to that commission. Our next appointment, item 9C, an appointment to the Northwestern Community Services Board. It's a vacant three-year term. The Community Services Board has endorsed the application of Sarah Dorr. How does the Board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for the endorsement of Sarah Dorr. I would move for the endorsement of Sarah Dorr. I would move for the endorsement of Sarah Dorr. I would move for the endorsement of Sarah Dorr. We give Sarah Dorr to the Northwestern Community Services Board. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? None heard. Well take a roll call vote on this appointment of Sarah Dorr to the Northwestern Community Services Board. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. I'm supervisor Lockridge supervisor Liero I the chair votes aye and the appointment is made item 9d to the Planning Commission I go ahead and make a motion that is in the Gainesboro district yes please I'll go ahead and make a motion for to appoint Jason Aikens for the four-year term on Planning Commission we have a motion in a second any discussion we'll go ahead with the roll call vote supervisor Liero I supervisor Lockridge vice chairman McCann slaughter supervisor Wells supervisor done supervisor jewel I chair votes aye and that appointment is also made we move now to item 10 committee business of which there is none on the agenda so item 11 public hearings on non Planning Commission issues we have one an ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code chapter 75 drive-by-the-way response and contingency plan and the title goes on for much longer but on that contingency plan I'll let you cover the details mr. Pearson Thank You mr. chairman I'll be going from memory the I repeated this for you all at your last meeting and the primary issues that are proposed to be changed from the drought ordinance include an allowance during the drought warning stage to allow for both callers to continue to function to in the drought emergency stage to prevent commercial car washes from operating if they don't have water recycling systems to ensure that let me just grab a piece of paper I've got of course and to be clear I'm the one who prepares the PowerPoint so this is entirely my fault this is entirely my fault again restrict operation of commercial car washes without water recycling systems and to establish an effective date three years from now to allow them to catch up if they are so inclined during the drought emergency stage to allow for bulk water hauling if it's for temporary potable residential purposes so if somebody's had a well go dry where they have a cistern that needs to be filled and to clarify that water could still be hauled if it's non potable for any purpose I'm so that section was added and then lastly to modify the existing moratorium on new service connections when in a drought emergency previously that moratorium was automatic as soon as the drought emergency was declared the amendment would make it so that it has to be an optional provision authorized by the Board of Supervisors either when you're ratifying the drought emergency your actual pleasure mr. chairman this is a public hearing item and I'm happy to answer any questions you might have upon it thank you to the board of any questions for mr. Pearson the Mr. Pearson, with the water haulers and the non-potable, I mean, they could then, you still could use it for construction, you could still use it even for filling a pool, correct? In the drought emergency, yes, yes, sir. The hauling of non-potable water could be used for all those purposes. That's correct. Sorry. I just wanted to put that out there. It's an important clarification. Agriculture was also an element that came up, feeding cattle otherwise, and that could happen in any of these stages. It's just the potable drinking water for public purposes that would be restricted. Supervisor Dunn? I don't know, Mr. Chairman, whether this could be for Mr. Pearson. I know Mr. Eric Lawrence is in the room. So when we finish a public hearing, are we going to have the opportunity to talk to Mr. Pearson and Mr. Lawrence again, or is now the appropriate time? Now is the appropriate time for questions, and I believe if he's willing to come forward, we can ask him questions after, Mr. Pearson. So, Mr. Pearson. We've had some conversations earlier today. I believe that Mr. Lawrence is also in the room, so the questions are common to him as well. Right now in Frederick County, we have a drought emergency based upon the evidence that Eric Lawrence has presented to us. In Winchester City, they get their water from the rivers. They do not have a drought emergency. So one of the comments has been, can you solve the water issue by letting those people that need water buy it from Winchester City? They would buy it through Frederick County? Yes. Okay. Thank you. So we have the water system in Frederick County. The water system in Frederick County is a water system that's not water-free. So if you have a large amount of water, that you can get from the river, but Frederick Water can get the water from Winchester City, the cost of that water in Winchester City is about double the price for Frederick County. The price for water in Winchester City is approximately $10 per gallon or so, or per 1,000 gallons, and the price in Frederick County is about half of that $5. If that were to occur, then those bulk water haulers a lot of it. For developers who need to flush their systems, again, they could go and purchase the water, and the cost would be to them. So is there any reason that that would not work as a process? And if you'd like to defer to Mr. Lawrence, that'd be fine, too. Yeah, I'll encourage Eric to come up. My only comment would be I think functionally it would certainly work, and writing the ordinance would be an effort. It'd be easier to address the bulk hauling than I think the developer situation. But the ordinance is framed as a conservation measure, and it doesn't necessarily achieve those purposes, but I still think it is a prudent measure that could be incorporated. So if we passed the measure before us today that's proposed, we could further amend it going forward, correct? Okay. Mr. Lawrence? Anything you all come up with, we can certainly implement. Your concept of... The concept of purchasing city water, the developer, the hauler, they wouldn't physically be purchasing city water, but if we have a drought, we would purchase additional water from the city to serve their needs, and your concept says we should charge them additional money to recover the cost we have purchasing from the city. So one of the comments I've heard... The concept could work, yes. So one of the concepts I've heard has been you have a developer, he develops some land. As he develops it... He puts in his piping, he needs to flush it, even though the house has not yet been built for six, eight months down the road. Can you, as Frederick Water, charge him for that development? In other words, it's not going to cost the citizens of Frederick County anything, nor is it going to have an adverse effect on our drought situation, because Winchester City is providing the water of which they do not have a drought. If that occurred, would that meet their needs? And then, secondly, when they flush the systems again, a week or two before they actually tie up? In other words, would that meet their needs? And then, secondly, when they flush the systems again, a week or two before they actually tie up? In other words, would that meet their needs? And then, secondly, would that meet their needs? And then, secondly, would that meet their needs? So we have a lot of houses charging for that. In other words, is there a way that water can flow from a source that is readily available, Winchester City. It does not affect the drought situation in Frederick County, which I'm cognizant of. It seems to be a win-win situation for putting this together. Is that doable? It's doable. I think the simple way to look at it is we don't charge... When we're flushing new construction pipes, we don't charge for that. That's captured in the availability fee structure we have. What we do is... Because when you put new pipes in the ground, we've got to flush them, we've got to chlorinate them, we've got to clean them, and then we've got to make sure they're ready to go. So we don't want to flush pipes today, chlorinate them today, only to have them sit there for months because then we've got to flush them again before you actually have a customer on it. So we try to work right now, even during the drought, we try to work so we're not wasting water. So we work with the developers. We understand when they're going to actually have to tap that pipe for the house or the business. And we delay the flushing until we really get closer to that point. And then we coordinate it so we don't overwhelm our water plants in a single day. Just kind of stretch it out. My understanding is, from the developers, I could be wrong, is that they need to have that initial flush when they're laying the pipes in. So literally, if they put pipes together, it cleans out that dirt, et cetera. So that was the purpose for two flushes, not one. It all depends on how large that particular project is. We don't want to overwhelm our system by doing... We don't want to be doing too much pipe at once. But at the same time, we don't want to constantly flush and fill a pipe that is just going to sit there because the chlorine dies and we've got to flush it and do it again. Okay. I appreciate that. I'll come back. But last comment for you for the record. Frederick County has its own water system, Frederick Water. Winchester has its own system. Clark County has its own system. Warren County has its own system. And we've talked before this, but a regional water authority or commission, would that benefit everybody in this northern Shenandoah Valley region? The answer is yes. That's been discussed for many years. We actually have an agreement with Clark County, so we'll provide services as they develop in the double tollgate area. It's closer to our system than it is to anything else they have. Warren County expressed interest. The past couple of years, that hasn't advanced. And we have a constant discussion with Winchester. Regionalism is an opportunity for stability, but we're not... We have interconnections with Winchester, but our agreement is we can help each other as necessary, but it's not a daily... Thank you for your comments, and I'll make some comments when we get into the discussion here. Thank you. Thank you. Any other board members, supervisors? Before you leave, Eric, I just want to clarify a couple of things. On the construction end of it, you were talking about flushing pipes. Are we still at a situation where we have this critical water shortage? A guy wants to build a house, and he needs to start now. If you're a builder, you're looking at pulling your permits and so forth within the next 35, 40 days for a house in the spring. So are we still at a point where we say you can't get a permit to build your house? Where are we with that? Certainly, and just to clarify, we actually don't deny permits. Under your current drought ordinance, it says that during a drought emergency, you can't establish a new connection. But what that means... What that means is that new connection is when you pay for your permit. Right. We'll certainly, on a residential basis, it's typically going to take six, nine months plus to build a house. Right. We'll accept their permit purchase today, and the premise is you can't ask for that actual water service until we're out of the drought emergency. I understand. Okay. And I don't think we're going to be in a drought emergency six months from now, so go ahead and buy your permit today, build your house, and then we'll make your connection when you get there. Thank you. Thank you for the clarification. So, Fredrick Water, it's a gray area. Excuse me, that's a sore throat. A gray area. The other part is, out in Frederick County, we have people that use Winchester Water, and we have people that use Frederick County Water, and then we have another company, and then we have the wells. So Frederick Water, what portion of Frederick Water is a third, three-fourths? What, in Frederick County, what are we servicing with Frederick Water? What is the water? What is the water? What's Frederick Water? What is Frederick Water? We're public water, so we're servicing the public water services. We're probably serving 90 percent of our community that is on public water. The only folks that are actually using city water are some of the older communities and also some of the residential areas that were built in areas that Frederick Water didn't have facilities. But probably, we're easily 90 percent of the residents that have public service. Middle Town? Is that? Middle Town is not. Are they off of that now? Middle Town is Middle Town Service. They actually purchased that water from the City of Winchester. Okay. Thank you. I appreciate that. It was helpful. Thanks. So, I'm going to jump in, but I'm not going to other questions. Certainly, we'll hear from other supervisors. But I want to clarify something that was just mentioned. So you said we don't deny permits now, so the developers need to pull some permits in order to pull others. And continue with the process. Correct. I heard from a representative of developers this week that said they did have permits denied due to the drought emergency. I don't know if they're here to speak. But do you or Mr. Pearson know anything about that situation? If you come to my office to purchase a water connection, we accept your purchase. We give you your receipt. And then from a residential perspective, then you come down to the county and make application for your building permit. We don't deny your right. We deny your right to purchase a connection if you're within our service area. You just can't physically connect. You just can't physically make the connection. But if you buy your connection today for a house, you can't make the physical connection for six months because you have to build the house. The only potential communication breakdown with that is I think when the drought emergency initially started, there was a different interpretation as to how that was being implemented. And I believe at the very beginning. There was a firm moratorium on connections and people couldn't get permits. But Eric and his crew worked on that and changed how they were viewing the ordinance. And that's since been remedied. Within two weeks back in September, within two weeks of declaring a drought, we also adopted policy to define what a water connection was. So that says that was four months ago, five months ago. Thank you. So if that developer is here to speak, I encourage them. They're free to identify. Okay. They can identify themselves. But if not, I'll be contacting them in return. Any other supervisor questions? Mr. Chairman? Yes. Eric, I just wanted Mr. Waters. Again, just one, non-potable water. Water owners can use that for agriculture because we had a lot of ponds that went dry. That was really a big concern during that drought. So correct? That's correct. I don't regulate. Frederick Water, we don't provide non-potable water. Okay. We provide non-potable water. So we provide the water that's chlorinated, that's filtered, that we can drink. That is potable. If it's non-potable, you're getting it out of a creek, you're getting it somewhere else. We don't regulate that. Well, okay. Let's talk about that then. There was a discussion at a Frederick Water meeting where you offered the opportunity if they wanted to go to the quarry and they could do that. Yes. And get non-potable water. Right. So they can still do that. I want to make that clear. So there was the opportunity there still. If they wanted to do that through Frederick Water, they could do that, but they have to go to the quarry? Yes. That's correct. Okay. Thanks, sir. Another question. Mr. Lawrence, assuming that the bulk water hauling is staying within the county, what kind of effect does that have on the overall water table if it's being hauled from one part of the county to another? Well, I mean, the water table. As soon as you... As soon as we deliver water to you, it's removed from the water table. So if it's poured into a... How do I say it? If it's poured into a swimming pool, then it's removed from the water table. It stays in the swimming pool. I don't know if that's what you're asking. Thank you. Any other questions? Very good. Then we'll move to the public hearing portion of this. Okay. Thank you. The public is invited to come speak on this one issue at this time. Kathy Schnarr. Hi. My name is Kathy Schnarr. I'm in the Gainesboro district. And I moved here two years ago, bought a house that has a really bad well. And we've been working on it for two years. I get water constantly delivered from my water hauler into the cistern so that we have water that we can live there. It's going to be another year or so before they can drill a new well, which now they tell me may or may not work. But if you restrict my water hauler from bringing me water, I'm not going to be able to live in my house. I'm going to have to move. You can't sell my house because if it has no water, it's not going to sell. So I don't think that there should be restrictions on the water haulers as to when they're bringing me the water. We might have other restrictions, but it's like anybody that has city water doesn't have restrictions during a drought. So I don't know why I would have to have restrictions for my water hauler coming through. That's just my opinion. But it will make a big hardship on me and my family if they don't let the water haulers haul during the summer. Thank you. Mike Landis. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, board members, business owners and guests. My name is Michael Landis. I'm an employee of Taylor Farms Water Hauling. I'm a truck driver and I deliver water to many businesses, coal companies, homeowners. They all depend on that water for their livelihood, cooking, cleaning and daily functions, as well as many livestock applications. My family depends on me to provide for them by hauling water. I used to work at Continental here in Winchester. One of the main products we produced was pool liner. Over 400 employees work at that plant and depend on the production of pool liner. Can you imagine if they were forced to stop making that product just because of a water restriction? I'm not a speech giver. I can't speak as eloquently as Mr. Taylor. However, I can see how the restrictions are negatively affecting our business, Frederick County businesses, and citizens of Frederick County. Surely the small fraction of water that we get and distribute to the residents of Frederick County can be forgiven. We will be able to continue to provide a much-needed service. I was always told that government, even local government service, their role was to look out for the people and their best interests. Speaking for myself and my fellow employees, we request that you reconsider your bulk water hauling ban. Thank you. Ryan Taylor. Good evening, Chairman Ludwig and fellow board members. My name is Ryan Taylor from Taylor Farms in Inwood. I'm here tonight to talk about our diverse operation and the negative impact, Chapter 75, of the county code currently has on our business. We raise row crops and apples in Berkeley and Frederick Counties. In addition to our row crops, we have a trucking company. We specialize in hauling apples, small grains, and you guessed it, bulk water. When I first heard we couldn't get water in early September, I reached out to Frederick Water. They told me they follow the guidelines within the Frederick County code. I did some research, and sure enough, one of the prohibited activities listed at the bottom was bulk water sales. Mr. Jewell, Mr. Liero. I spoke a few months ago and voiced my concerns with this board about the current ban on bulk water haulers. Local businesses, pool companies, construction outfits, and homeowners depend on us. I was at the last board meeting. I listened to Mr. Lawrence's speech and presentations he provided about the drought update. There's no denying that we don't need rain, and we need the snow to recharge the groundwater. I reached out to Frederick Water after that meeting. They shared with me the total gallons of bulk water sales for 2023. Mr. Lawrence informed me. I was at the previous board meeting that Frederick Water produces 7 million gallons daily. Bulk water sales for the year equate to less than 0.56% of the yearly volume. Yes, you heard me right. That's only 0.56%. Every business in Frederick County that has a Frederick Water meter can operate their business normally, so why can't we? Recently, Mr. Pearson drafted an ordinance to this board to allow bulk water sales during a drought watch, but to leave the ban in place during an emergency for bulk water haulers. While this is a step in the right direction, we need to address the bulk water haulers under this drought emergency. Tonight, I want to propose two options for you. Option 1. I'm asking for this board to make a motion within Chapter 75 to remove the ban placed on us and allow bulk water sales whether we are under a drought watch or warning. Option 2. At the last board meeting, Mr. Lawrence stated he currently is buying water from the City of Winchester. He mentioned buying water from the City is a smart thing. It relaxes his wells and allows water to flow through the city. It allows the quarries to recharge. He also mentioned that the water purchased from the City costs more than he sells his water to his current customers. My proposal during this drought emergency, when Frederick Water is purchasing water from the City of Winchester, to allow us to buy water from Frederick County, we pay the difference. That way, Frederick Water is not losing money and we can continue to operate as we have for years. I think it's a win-win for us both. I look forward to answering any questions. In closing, Chairman Ludwig, you made a comment at the last board meeting that stuck with me. It was in regards to the road condition on Owls Lane and the bond. You said, quote, Maybe this county might have made a mistake with the bond, end quote. I don't want us to make a mistake tonight. Let's get this right. Come up with a solution that works for us both. Thank you all for your time. Thank you. Ty Lawson. I forgot to show you. This is my chart of bulk water sales. That little orange sliver is a 0.5 million. That little orange sliver is a 0.5 million. That little orange sliver is a 0.5 million. That little orange sliver is a 0.5 million. And the blue is the rest of the water. And the blue is the rest of the water. And the blue is the rest of the water. And the blue is the rest of the water. Mr. Chairman, members of the Board of Supervisors, I'm Ty Lawson, here on behalf of developers of commercial, industrial, and residential structures. I frankly appreciate the comments from several of you all and from the public. And our two issues have already been somewhat addressed, but one is we've got in the text to understand the red line helps it out, but it says a moratorium on the issuance of all new water sewer or service connections. I think Mr. Lawrence is saying that that does not mean taps are going to be withheld. I think we ought to clarify that and confirm that. That was a concern of my clients. I think we can all agree issuance of taps doesn't really do anything to preserve water. Because, again, we're six to nine months down the road before that structure is capable of consuming water. The other point is water taps are good things. We pay quite a bit for those, and it sounds like the Sanitation Authority could use that money to help resolve its current situation. The other is there is a provision about obtaining water from fire hydrants for construction purposes. You all already made a comment about the flushing of pipes. Mr. Chairman, I think that's a good point. I would hope we could all agree. We don't want to stop the construction of infrastructure for water and sewer. Part of that process is the flushing of those pipes as they go in the ground. We want to be able to keep doing that and not have a provision that would unintentionally maybe stop that. The other is, and I really appreciate the comments about purchasing water from the city. When we're in an odd situation, where the county is in a drought condition but the city is not, our clients would be happy to pay directly from the city of Winchester for their water. And at their rates, Mr. Lawrence, I think, had the clarification that, no, you'd need to do it through the Sanitation Authority. That's fine as well. I don't think that would adversely affect the other rate payers. And if an individual or an entity wanted to do that, and again, the city has it, let's do it. As I understand it, our lines are already plumbed together and already designed to flow both ways. So we would just be continuing that process. Thank you all very much. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Do we have anyone else who would like to speak about the Drought Emergency Ordinance? Or the Drought Ordinance in general? It applies to emergency and warning. Yes, please come forward and state your name and magisterial district. Good evening. I'm Chip Grove, Grove Green Landscaping. We use a hadroceder to seed lawns. I'm sorry, are you from the county? Yes. Do you know what magisterial district you live in? It's a Clearbrook area. Okay, Stonewall. Thank you. Yes. Like I said, we've been doing it since 1986. But last year when they stopped the water, the haulers are a small number of the gallons used in this county every day. But when they stop that, it takes your business and you've got to go find water other places. So a lot of times you're driving an hour one direction to get a load of water to come back to a job. And then you've got to drive all over the place. The county has meters and everything. They can bill you for the water. You know what everyone was using every day. So I don't see the problem with like, say they can just get from Winchester and just add the bill to us if it's a water shortage. Because like I said, when you're doing landscaping, you've got water shrubs, grasses, or it puts you out of business. Just like these guys, they can't haul water if there's no water to be hauled. So it's just, you're telling a company to basically stop. It's been business, like we've been in business since 86. And last fall, you know, most days we're riding, you know, a couple hundred miles a day in our truck getting water. It's a good job. So it takes your overtime, takes everything in your business. On small business, there's a lot of strain on it because you've got a lot more payroll, fuel. Yeah, it's maintenance. It's everything that adds up on you. So it'd be better just to pay the higher fee for the city water that they're going to ship through. Because they've got our meter, so they know how many gallons we're getting. I don't see what the problem is by just billing us more for the water. And have, you know, save all the small businesses. You know, we're not, none of us are big businesses. But they're actually stopping. It's not the, it's all, you know, less than 20 people employing all the water haulers. So, I thought I'd let you know. Have a good afternoon. Anyone else like to speak? Hearing none, the public hearing portion of this item is closed. Board, how would you like to speak? Who would like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I don't know whether it's permissible. Would Mr. Lawrence be able to come back up and answer a couple of the questions that were asked here about, if not, that's fine. I was wondering if these questions were possible. In the past, we weren't allowed to go back, but I'll defer to Rod or the parliamentarian. The Board is always entitled to receive information. Very good. Then, Mr. Lawrence, you'd like to ask? You heard what the folks said. I was just trying to get some information back from you, if any of those things were possible. Mr. Pearson and I were just talking. It's, I don't see, nothing's easy. But amending your ordinance to establish a rate for water haulers if we're purchasing, you know, for them to operate during the droughts. Because we can purchase additional water from windchips. If we can purchase additional water from Winchester, that's feasible. Okay. I'll defer to Rod, because Rod and I had a conversation about it earlier, whether or not you can amend it tonight or it requires another advertisement. It's more of a challenge because water haulers have meters. So, that's an easy one to track. The construction aspect, because we don't charge for flushing the lines, it's part of the development process. It's already captured in your availability fee. I don't think we're really structured to capture, to recover those costs. I think it's a first to you all in your ordinance. It's a first to you all. You want to restrict it, you restrict it. If you want to relax it, then you can relax it. The overall mindset is it's water conservation during a drought. So, you know, we don't want to, we don't want to waste water. So, I don't want to treat water, chlorinate water, only to have it thrown on the ground or thrown into ponds or something. That's why the non-potable is certainly viable. But just to put that out there. I think it's a good idea to defer the hydrant to get the water because it's a lot easier, convenient, it's faster. But if it's not, if you're not delivering it to someone's house for them to drink, it's really not the necessary water. But I'll defer to you all because at the end of the day, it's your code and we'll enforce whatever code you adopt. So, the question I have is, the water coming out of the hydrant is drinkable water? Correct. Correct. So, if a water hauler is pulling that, that's taking the water out of the hydrant. That's taking the water level of our portable water down, is what you're saying. Even though, but if we buy it from Winchester, does that replace the water that we don't have? What it does is, like right now, we are purchasing a million gallons a day more than we do normally from Winchester to supplement our system so that we don't have to draw as much from our groundwater aquifers. Right. Right. And we don't have to do that to our quarries and our wells. We're not doing that to meet additional demands. We're doing that to help let our ground recover. Right. So, I would discourage anything that would suggest we could just go buy more water from Winchester because we want to use it to recover our system. But there's no doubt that if there's elements that are non-potable, could be used for non-potable, they shouldn't be purchasing water from me because that's wasteful. Wasteful across the board because I've got to, you know, water is free. You know, water is free out of the creek, but you're buying it from me because I've had to treat it and satisfy VDH requirements. And if you're going to just haul it and put it somewhere where people aren't going to drink it, you're being wasteful of that product. But at the same time, you know, it's up to you guys to figure out what you want in the ordinance. If you want to try to establish a fee attached to it, I think Rod will confirm your draft tonight is not acceptable to amend and adopt that way. It would have to be re-advertised. Mr. Chairman, if I can speak to one thing on that. The provision that's in the ordinance now says the implementation of conservation water rates could be approved by the Board of Supervisors for the duration of the drought emergency stage to a maximum increase of 20% above the existing rate. So there's really two issues there. One is, is the 20% enough and does it need to clarify particular uses such as the water hauling? But this whole thing is just a matter of time. Okay. So the whole conversation is premised on, well, okay, if the Board changes this ordinance tonight, that Mr. Lawrence can start charging the water haulers this additional money. What it actually says is it's a two-step. The Board still has to take a separate action to do that. So as a matter of fact, right now tonight, the Board could, by mere resolution, approve Mr. Lawrence to charge water haulers the extra 20%. I realize that's not his entire differential. But that could be done tonight. I'm not sure if the ordinance itself needs to be more specific than that, other than obviously if it's desirable to increase that percentage. That would require sending this back for further public hearing. But the Board could certainly adopt the ordinance it has tonight and then also pass a motion saying that Mr. Lawrence is entitled to charge up to an extra 20% to bulk water haulers, effective at 820 p.m. tonight. Okay. So a question on that. Bulk water haulers haul water for potable and non-potable purposes, right? They fill pools with it, for example. Right. Would filling a pool be an appropriate use of non-potable water, in your opinion? I believe so. But the pool has to be chlorinated and shocked part of the normal process so that if you take a look at the data, you can see that there is no water in the pool. Right? If you take the potable water, it gives you a head start. It gives you clean water to start with. I suspect the formulation of these ordinances were with that in mind, to try and restrict uses in some cases that weren't emergency uses. If we have a citizen whose well has gone dry, however, the changes that are proposed in the ordinance today would allow water haulers to bring water to them for those purposes. Right. Correct. Yes. And the phrasing is, except for the temporary provision of water for potable residential uses, this should not be construed to prevent the hauling of non-potable water for any purpose. So you have a provision in place. You have meters on the trucks, I presume, or on your delivery systems, so you can charge water haulers for the water. But we wouldn't know. If it was in the intent of this Board to restrict its use in other ways, like for pools or perhaps other uses, you wouldn't have any way to control that, of course. Correct. It's easier if you either can haul or you can't haul, because once you've taken the water out of the hydrant, I don't monitor where you're taking it. So the ordinance is written, we already heard a few grumbles from the audience a moment ago. It seems to be vague in that respect. It says, except for the temporary provision. Except for the temporary provision of water for potable residential purposes. So that doesn't state clearly what those purposes are allowed and which ones are not. So it doesn't say that pools are not or they are, for example. It's more challenging to enforce, too, because once you've taken the water, I'm not going to follow the truck. Right. But we would still have an ordinance in place that says, by rule, we don't want it used for certain uses. And if we want to take that up, we would probably have to do so at a future public hearing where the people who would argue that they do need potable water for that purpose would have a chance to speak. Do you agree with all that? Yes. I just want to make sure my logic is good there. Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Sherman? Yes. Supervisor? So I'm going to be supportive of the resolutions here today. I'm not quite sure this comes from the Board. I'm not quite sure this is going to accomplish everything that I'm looking to accomplish. So you may be coming back to us on that. On the issue of flushing lines for developers, from what I've been told, that initial flush six months before a house has been built is to clean up the muck in those pipes, et cetera, so that when it is then cleaned out a week or two before you actually have a hookup, you don't have a huge mess. You've made the comment that you don't charge for that. I'm not going to tell you how to run your business. But I would encourage you to say, yes, we will charge for that initial flush. You have a certain volume of water that's going to occur because of the situation we're in. So that's one comment. Comment number two is, unfortunately, in Frederick County and Winchester City, we have a drought condition in one entity. We have water in the other entity. And so depending upon where you live, you're living in a drought situation or non-drought. That, to me, makes no sense at all. So you're going to see my comments coming forward saying, yes, we're going to charge for that. And I'm not going to say that we're going to get rid of that. I'm going to say that we're not going to get rid of that. And so let's let's go and work together on that issue. But I'm looking to say that there are people in Frederick County that need water. But Winchester City has it. That those people are willing to pay the differential between Winchester City and Frederick County to then get the water that they need. So if you have any comments on that, that's fine. I'm not trying to put you on the spot, Mr. Lawrence. But I'm just throwing out some thoughts. Yeah. On the new construction, we capture that cost just through our availability fee structure. And part of the partnership… when developers put new infrastructure in the ground, water and sewer lines, it's their cost. They build it to our standards. They install it. We use our water to flush it out, and then they turn it over to us for perpetual maintenance. So there's a partnership going in there. We don't want to charge them for that water flush, but we want to be responsible. And when we have limited water supply, we want to make sure we're not flushing it multiple times. So if I'm going down this correctly, in conversations I've had with developers, their concern has been not to be able to do that initial flush. So if we're able to solve that problem, I'd advocate for that as long as Winchester City has water. If they don't have water, game changes. That's where I'm coming from. Thank you, Mr. Lawrence, and thank you, Mr. Sherman. Any other questions? Mr. Lawrence, to Mr. Lawson's comments about no moratoriums on taps and no moratoriums on water, and purchasing water from the city. Currently, with the ordinance that is being proposed tonight, it would need some changes? Frederick Water adopted a resolution back in September that defined what that water connection is, because your ordinance says no new water connections. So our resolution said purchasing the tap is acceptable. The water connection is, when you actually start draining water from the pipe. So that clarified back in September that you could continue to, even during a drought emergency, you can purchase your taps, you can purchase that right, you can get your building permits through the Frederick County, you can build, and then when you come back, as long as we're not in the drought emergency, you can make your connection. So I think the logic also there is, we don't have any, we have purchases that were done during the drought emergency, but we're going to be out of the drought emergency by the time the houses are done. And our resolution, that Frederick Water adopted back in September, was to reassure that. And I have all the confidence that we'll continue to work with the development community so that when they need to occupy a house, when they need to have their water service, we're going to work with them and make it happen. And to Mr. Lawson's comment about the charging, as far as the differential in the rate, if you needed to do that, is that something we would need to add to? I don't think we need to do that because we're not charging for the flushing. The flushing is captured in our availability. In your original cost. Just our development program. Yes. Very well. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you very much. So now the board needs to have discussion and decide how we want to handle this. Any discussion? Surpiser Wells. These are just comments to get started. I'd like to see us take the ordinance as it is and consider, and clarify in the wording about the connections, about the permit connections. So it's just clarified. That's all. I've heard good things from all the parties. So I think we just need to get that in there so everyone knows where we are. The other part is, is that based on Mr. Williams' comments over here, I would be in favor of going ahead and doing the 20% and allowing, allowing water haulers to haul water now and come back maybe with an adjustment later on from charging more if we need to do that. So those are my two comments on revising what we have. So I think what you're suggesting is that we adopt the ordinance revisions as written since they're ready for today and would allow... for some of the things you want and then come back and revisit in the... make a second resolution after we've done that about charging 20% more. Correct. Water haulers during the emergency. Correct. Thank you. Okay. Any other discussion? Mr. Chairman, Mr. Williams, I thought that the current code allows for the 20%. Am I incorrect on that? The current code does allow for the 20%, but what it says is the Board has... the current code makes provision, it makes provision for the 20%, but it's not self-executing. The Board still has... even if the Board wasn't making any other changes... let me rephrase that. Even if the Board was not tonight considering making any other changes, any changes to the ordinance, technically Mr. Lawrence and Frederick Water cannot charge 20% more... Okay. ...even though the ordinance says it because the ordinance says the Board has to approve the 20% just as an administrative matter. Okay. Thank you. All right. So, Mr. Chairman, additional comments. I'll support moving forward with this as written. I'd like to come forward with a 100%, not 20%, because that represents the true cost. And if there's a consensus to do so, fine. If there's not, so be it. But the true cost of water recapture is about double, not the 20%. And then I'd like to put in a provision that for those people that are gardening, home gardeners, we're not talking about farms where John Doe has a small garden to feed his family without being exempt from this, or they pay the additional cost. I've had some constituents call me and have said, basically, how do you shut off my garden? I can't water that. I'm trying to grow food for my family. You force me to go down to a local grocery store to buy. I think that's resonating with that. And because we have the water availability from Winchester City, I would like to see that as an exemption in an amendment going forward, Mr. Wells' amendment to go forward. But my only suggestion is I had made an amendment. I don't know if we can amend that at this time, or we need a second hearing to add or? We need a second public hearing to increase the percentage past the 20. And Mr. Williams, does there have to be a second hearing to exempt homegrown gardens or not? I know the definition of homegrown is undefined, so. It's making it less restrictive, and I'm looking at it, because right now there's the provision in there, specifically prohibited activities using water are, amongst other things, watering of vegetable gardens. Correct. If that's the provision, Supervisor Dunn, that you're seeking to strike, I think that could be stricken tonight, but the percentage is going to require, a public hearing. Thank you. So, Mr. Chairman, I'll just make an amendment to this to strike that provision if we go forward. Okay, any other discussion? I just had a quick comment. I see them, they're willing to pay the extra additional, but I also think we're singling them out as a small business and listening to the constituent in Gainesboro. I guess I just don't understand why they would pay 20% more, although, I believe everybody, if we're tapping into Winchester City, I feel across the board, maybe everyone should pay more, but I don't understand why we are, why is she paying more for her drinking water than somebody who has the connection already? If we're pulling from Winchester City as a whole, I think than anybody who's on public water, maybe, just a thought. I don't know why we're singling out a small business or some small businesses are connected to public water, but others are not. That's just a thought as to, I don't know if that's. Well, it's been tricky, certainly. And then defining, you can water your garden with non-potable water, surely, but of course, what does it take for people to do that? To solve that. I don't think we've tried to undertake that issue, other than that we banned its use, and that would drive people who wanna keep their gardens going to use non-potable water. Non-potable water to preserve the drinking water. So that is the trade-off there. Any other comments? So, I've heard from a number of citizens, and there's a couple other issues. It had been raised that if we do restrict certain uses when we declare an emergency, that some of these businesses are allowed to appeal. We have an appeals process. The problem is they can't initiate an appeal until the drought emergency is declared. And their business is already being effective. And then they have to wait however many days it is to get to us and file an appeal. So something we should perhaps also consider is whether we can have an appeals process that predicts an upcoming potential emergency and let people pre-file an appeal in case we're about to impose a restriction on their business. That could be done in the drought warning phase, where then people would be allowed to pile, file an appeal just in case that we end up going to a drought and emergency. It protects them from being shut down for a period of time if their appeal is accepted. We wouldn't necessarily have to, well we might have to hear it then, so that we're set to go before the emergency. Let's see if there were any other. So I, I think there might be enough revisions being made that are being discussed today that we may need another public hearing to define what a connection is, as currently defined by Frederick Water in the ordinance and the other items that we discussed today. But we should make a motion and or amendments on what we want to do with the language in front of us today if there's no more discussion. Mr. Chairman, I'll make a motion to go forward with what is the proposal and then there can be further revisions. The reason for that is that it solves some of the problems under the existing current code. So this proposal alleviates some of those issues and that would take care of that issue versus having to come back in two or four weeks. And then there could be additional revisions based upon if we pass this tonight to propose. So I will make a motion to go forward with the proposed language and then there can be further revisions as necessary. But I think this proposed revisions improve the current law that we have, current code that we have. So we have a motion. And you're not including the vegetable garden, which nobody's watering right now anyway. I'm leaving that out. I'm leaving the 20% out. It's just to take care of this. And then when this is finished, I or somebody else may come back and say, I'd like to have some additional revisions and here they are for future hearing. We can also take up the 20%, I believe, as a separate motion if we want to do that. So we have a motion to accept the language modification. Mr. Chairman. Any other applications as presented here? Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion of this motion? Can I just ask, does this take care of and allow the small businesses that we heard from, does it allow them to haul the water to the people that don't have water? Does this take care of the language as written? So the language as I read it allows, it prohibits bulk water hauling or sales except for the temporary provision of water for potable residential uses. And we have perhaps not defined that clearly enough. So it would allow them currently, but we need to circle back if it's allowing some things that we mean to restrict and have a hearing on that. So yes, I believe that language, is that correct? Yeah, I agree. It would allow for drinking water purposes to allow during the drought emergency for bulk water hauling. And the citizen whose well has gone dry and needs water. Yes, absolutely. It would allow her to get her water. So we have a motion to second. Any further discussion? Very good. We will vote on accepting the ordinance revisions as they are written in front of us. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye, and we've adopted this language. Before we move to the next item, is there a motion with regard to the 20, up to 20% change in charging fees that we have discussed? Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a motion that the Board have the ability to execute the 20% and to raise it up to 100%, which would match the Winchester, the real cost. So anything be on 20%, the attorney said, we'll have to have another public hearing for that. I understand that that's correct. So I'm asking you, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Williams, to make the motion to execute on the 20% and if we pass that today, then we can execute that tomorrow. Is that correct, Mr. Williams? Unless you state otherwise, it's effective upon Mr. Chairman saying that the motion passes. Okay, so therefore, I'll make a couple motions. Motion number one is simply this, that the 20% that we will execute up to 20%, which the current code allows for. But you're applying that to all water users or bulk haulers? I'll apply that to 20% of the water users. I'll apply that to water users that need water to deal with the exemptions that we just dealt with. It needs to be ascertainable from Mr. Lawrence. Mr. Williams, I'll ask you the question as the attorney. By the way the code is written, how would that apply? My impression is it would apply to those that are using excess of water, but we can get it from someplace else. I don't know how Mr. Lawrence would determine that. I don't either. And ultimately his decision would be this is not determinable, so therefore I'm not going to be able to charge it. Okay. So he can determine if you want to propose an increase for water haul of potable water, and if we wanted to consider, especially if the drought worsens, if we wanted to consider a rate increase countywide, that would be something we would take up at a future meeting. Correct. But I think, that we can do that tonight up to the 20% because that's written into the code. We could. That's why I was asking you, is your motion for all county users or just water haulers currently? Do the water haulers first. I'll do all the water haulers. Okay. So we have a motion to have a 20, allow the 20, implement the 20% premium on water charges for water haulers of potable water as we just authorized ourself to do with this, adopting this ordinance. Do we have a second? I'll second it. So we have a motion and a second. Any discussion of that particular motion? This allows them to get potable water, they're just paying extra for it. That's correct. Correct. Okay. Vice Chairman? And it's just this particular industry, and it doesn't matter whether we're in a watch or a warning, regardless, they're still going to pay the 20%. Is that what you're intending? My belief is that it would be for the emergency. I believe that they are exempt under a warning. Yes, I'll make it for a watch or a warning. That will cover all of them. So Mr. Pearson, does the 20% premium that we're allowed to charge now, does that apply only due to the emergency, or is that written so that it would apply outside the emergency? It would only apply during the emergency. But one point of clarification that I hope the county attorney can back me up on is, if I understood the motion correctly, you're going to adopt the changes to the ordinance that were proposed, and then separately authorize 20% increase on bulk water haulers for the functions that they're allowed to do. So that would only be limited to those potable residential purposes, as detailed in the ordinance you're about to adopt. So they wouldn't be able to haul for other purposes. They could only haul for potable residential purposes, and they'd be paying 20% more. Just clarifying for the board's consideration. The board adopted the 20% premium, but we did adopt the ordinance. We did adopt the ordinance. Oh, apologies. Yeah. So this is a motion for 20% premium for water haulers of potable water within the restrictions listed in the ordinance for potable water use only. So let me just be clear here, because these gentlemen who spoke this evening, the bulk of what they're hauling is for other uses. So essentially what we're saying is, they now cannot haul or be a part of obtaining this water? Am I reading this incorrectly? If they're in a drought emergency, bulk water haulers are still limited to temporary provision for water for potable residential purposes. Adopting the 20% surcharge on that does not lift them from any of the drought emergency regulations, so they can still only haul for that purpose. They're just going to have to pay 20% more than usual. Correct. It's in hand. However, we recognize that we didn't define what potable water uses are. Yeah, Mr. Lawrence, now we're joking. Some of them seem to be making noises or arguments that water would, in a pool, must be potable. My son drinks pool water all the time. So, no, I think for the, as I would interpret it, but I am not in charge, thankfully not charged, with enforcing this, you do fill pools with potable water, but it's not for the purpose of drinking. And so potable residential purposes is intended for the consumption of that water. So I wouldn't view it as saying that it allows for pools to be filled, as I've drafted the ordinance. Mr. Chairman, I mean, if this is going to cause a problem on definitions, and I'm prepared just to withdraw and come back and try to address the issue in two weeks and be more clear on exactly what we're trying to do, the concept was that those that are bulk water haulers, if they can have access to water, let them have access to water and pay the premium. That's my concept. And I'm putting that concept into what the code allows us to do. And if we can achieve that tonight, fine. If we can't achieve that, I'm going to suggest we come back and ask staff to address that issue in two weeks and try to address that. So are you withdrawing your motion? I'll leave it there unless somebody else, if I have a motion here, I have a second. Mr. Chairman. And if we have to go and we find it further, fine. We'll have a discussion. So I'm telling you all seven of you, that's where I'm coming from. And I don't know, if this does not achieve it, then so be it. That's what I'm trying to achieve here. So any more discussion from the Board? Yeah, I do have a question, if I can. It seems the motion we just passed didn't further help them whatsoever. And I'm a little concerned about that. So the ordinance we passed, they were banned previously from hauling bulk water at all. Now they may haul potable water for uses which we might not have defined precisely for residential potable water use. So they are allowed to do that. How we handle a situation of something not being well defined is something I think we're going to have to take up at the next hearing when we clean up this ordinance. But right now, what we've approved allows them to operate as long as the county and they can agree that those are potable water uses. If not, I don't know what happens. I don't know if they could be fined because they define it as such a use and we don't. Can I respond to that? So the landscaping gentleman in the back that spoke, so he won't be able to use any what? I just am having a hard time with some small businesses. I own a small business in Frederick County. We don't have a water restriction right now because I'm hooked up to public sewer and water. But how am I any more precedent than him having a landscape business? I just worry that this, while we are trying to achieve everyone to use less, I don't, I think we've just created more of an issue. That's all. I mean, right now, he cannot do his landscape business either because it's not for drinking. Mrs. Lockridge? Yes. Just amended to, you could amend my comments to include any current use of what both water holders are using as long as the water is available through another entity such as Winchester City. If you want to amend that, I'm open to that, to try to achieve what you're trying to achieve. Well, the ordinance says, it has to be for potable residential uses. So we've just made that an ordinance. I don't know that by motion we can remove that. Maybe we'd have to come back in two weeks. I understand the point very much. It sounds to me like we need to do more research on this before we put it forward. And I guess the other thing I wonder is cold and the weather, the way it's been, how cold it is. Are we still doing these uses that have been proposed tonight with hydro-seeding and that sort of thing this time of year? So I'm hearing that you're continuing to do that. Well, the other question is whether... . . The other question is whether non-potable water could be used. We have plenty of that in the Slowinski... . Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, I believe Mr. Lawrence said there is a place for us to get non-potable water at the Stephen City quarry. It's not as easy as pulling up to a hydrant and making the connection and loading your truck. You actually would have to have a pump, right, to get it into your truck. But you would be allowed to do that, and you have a way of maintaining the gallons and such that are being withdrawn? Or is... how does that work? What we... if I can answer that. Sure. What we have offered previously is the... they can coordinate with us and come to the Slowinski plant because that's not delivering potable water, but it has access to water. So we can coordinate and fill up the trucks at that location. And you can pump the water into their trucks so they don't need additional equipment? Correct. You have a hydrant... We have a hydrant there that we've designated. Mr. Taylor, he's communicated with our staff. He's communicated with our staff about it. Hasn't used it yet, but... so that... we have a location there that we can work with people. They just have to talk to us. This makes more sense for the people that have spoken here this evening because the one gentleman is from Inwood and the other gentleman is from Clearbrook, and the Slowinski plant is certainly closer for these folks to be able to have access to this water. I don't know if it addresses all the issues here, but there is a way for you to obtain the water. For what you need. Mr. Larks has provided us with non-potable water. Their hours are limited from 7 to 3. One thing I wanted to address to this board, the 20% increase, the proposed us paying the difference was when we were utilizing the City of Winchester's water into the Frederick water system. That's where I was saying I'd pay the difference. So, putting this as Lockbridge said, it's true, we're not really gaining anything. We're just creating more issues and problems for us. I'm going to make a suggestion that I think it's very evident that everybody on this board wants to help out the business people. Absolutely. You got our attention, we want to help you. I think we need a couple of weeks, if we can live two more weeks. I know it's asking something, but if we can just sit down and have a group get the wording together, I think we can come up with something. Something that will help you guys out. We don't put non-potable water in the same truck that we're going to haul potable water to. All our trucks we haul, we advertise, we sell to our customers. That's a suggestion on my part. No, I agree. We need more time to get a lot of these issues ironed out. Thank you. And it would be a public hearing and we would ask you to contact us in advance so we can prepare the best draft language. The question before us now is are we done with the ordinance as it is or do you still want to proceed with the surcharge? I'll withdraw my motion. I'd like to see if staff can in the next two weeks or three weeks before our next meeting come back with some language to try to address some of the issues that have been raised here and then go forward. Do we need a public hearing to do that or not? Mr. Williams? We might. If the Board is comfortable with staff going ahead and advertising the public hearing, then we're fine. How long in advance do we need to advertise the public hearing? There's our issue. We are perhaps fortunate that we have a fifth Wednesday in January. Right, so we have three weeks. Three weeks. But that requires clarity on the language within the next, yeah, two days because basically the deadline to get the advertisement to the newspaper is Friday. That's not going to happen. So it would fall to two meetings from now? Yeah. So if that motion was drawn, do we have any other discussion or motions? Just one clarification, please. To be clear, these business owners that are here, they're not going to be able to come back. So we're going to have to wait until the next meeting. Okay. So if they're not going to be able to come back, then we'll have to wait until the next meeting. Okay. We're going to have to wait until the next meeting. So the business owners that are here this evening would still have the option to go to the Solinsky plant. They would need to coordinate it with Frederick Water to be able to hook to a hydrant for non-potable water to continue to run their operations. Is that correct, sir? That's correct. Okay. So in the interim, we will try to figure all of this out, but you'd still have a resource for the water that you need. And they may buy the water? Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you. And they may buy, they may now, they couldn't before, but they can now buy potable water according to our latest ordinance. Right. Correct. So at least for the interim until we can get back. Right. So we've solved some of the problems. Okay. We intend to solve the rest. Thank you. By the earliest opportunity. Thank you all for your comments and bearing with us here. So then we move on to item 12. We're into Planning Commission Business. Okay. So this is Sub-Rings, 12A, a CUP number 11-23 for 231. And I'm gonna mispronounce that one. Vaucluse Spring Holding LLC for a Special Event Facility from a restaurant recreation and resort in Back Creek. Thank you, guys. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This Conditional Use Permit is for a Recreation Area and Resort, a Public Restaurant and a Special Event Facility. The 44-acre property is located at 231 Valcluse Spring Lane in the Bat Creek Magisterial District and it's zoned RA. This location map shows the property outlined in blue. It's located south of Stephen City and approximately one mile west off of Route 11. The applicant proposes the continued operation of a 15-room bed and breakfast that was approved under CUP 02-95. Since that time, the definition of a bed and breakfast has changed in the ordinance to cap the number of rooms at 10 and therefore this CUP is being filed under the resort category. They propose converting an existing restaurant for guests only to be open to the public. They propose holding 12 to 15 special events per year with a maximum of 130 guests per event that will conclude by 11 o'clock p.m. And special events would be held either in... inside or outside with portable restroom facilities. The applicant has stated that if an event were to be held, a full buyout of the property would be required, meaning that all rooms would be booked by those associated with the event, therefore reducing the total potential amount of vehicles and people on the property at once. And finally, no structural expansions or additional rooms are proposed, only minor renovations to the existing structures to preserve the historic integrity of the site. The zoning ordinance includes additional regulations for specific uses for special event facilities, most notably that all parking spaces and travel aisles must be graveled, and that will be addressed through the site plan stage. The proposed use is consistent with the comprehensive plan, which designates this area to remain rural and supports historic preservation, tourism, and local businesses. Thank you. Should the Board of Supervisors... Supervisors find this application to be appropriate, the Planning Commission has recommended the following conditions. All review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. A site plan shall be approved by Frederick County prior to establishment of the use, and the site plan would be meeting the requirements in the zoning ordinance for special event facilities. These special events may not exceed 130 guests per event. Amplified outdoor music would... Be concluded by 9 o'clock p.m. And all events shall conclude by 11 o'clock p.m. Also, approval of this CUP would void the previously approved CUP 02-95, and any expansion or modification of this use would require a new CUP. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item on January 3rd and recommended approval. Following a public hearing tonight, staff is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors... Supervisors on this CUP. That's all I have for the presentation. Happy to answer any questions, and the applicants are here as well, and they've prepared a brief presentation they would like to share as well. Thank you. Would the Board like to ask questions from administration first before hearing the applicant? Any questions? I have no questions. Any questions on this side? Very good. Thank you. If the applicant would like to present. Thank you. This one. Good evening, Chairman, members of the Board. This is the second time I'm here. My name is Jan van Houten. I'm a chef, and I looked at this property about two years ago, and I've been looking for many years for a perfect property for me to establish a fine dining restaurant and rooms. So I will try to purchase another property that didn't work out, and I was introduced to Vaucluse Spring about two years ago and fell in love with the beauty of the building. I'm originally... I'm originally from Belgium and from a medieval town, so the building dates back to 1785, and this is as well part what charmed me to looking into a purchase. Me and my team are all about quality over quantity, so we want to stay as an inn of 15 rooms and smaller events as well. We don't want large conferences and things like that. I have no plans of putting... a large conference center or anything like that. I'm a chef, work for multiple Michelin-star restaurants, and I'm all about farm-to-table. So having a field that we can grow our own vegetables and maybe have a coop with chickens and things like that was what I was looking for. So let's see if this works. Kind of... I grew up in tourism and the hospitality. Since I was... I was 14 years old. I'm originally from Belgium, went to culinary school, and I always worked in the higher-end hospitality. So I worked for the royal family in Belgium and then Michelin-star restaurant. I came to the U.S. to work for the Belgium ambassador and got married to a beautiful American lady. And now my son is full American, too, so I'm very proud to be here. And we are... I hope to be a part of the family in the future. And I hope to be part of the family in the future. So let's see if this works. Yeah, the beauty of it, farming as well is definitely part of the vision that I have. We only have 15 rooms, and that's what we want to keep. Events, like Kayla mentioned, I worked in boutique hotels like this, and currently I'm in Goodstone in Middleburg, Virginia. When we hold an event like this, 30 of the people that are part of the event are in fact from the same area. So we have a lot of people from the different countries. And we have a lot of people from the different cities. So you can see how we have a lot of people from different countries. And I think that I'm very proud of this. And I think that we're really doing a great job of keeping this and keeping this as a part like Kayla mentioned, I worked in boutique hotels like this, and currently I'm in Goodstone in Middleburg, Virginia. When we hold an event like this, 30 of the people that are part of the event are already staying in our hotel, 15 times two. So cars as well wouldn't be a big issue. Since it is a full buyout, we would have our guests stay in other partnering hotels in the neighborhood and have them shuttled over, so there wouldn't be a massive amount of cars. We like boutique, so, and that's how we wanna present this. So I think when I saw the property, there was like the sense of having already a restaurant that then later on we figured out that that wasn't the case. So we kind of had a setback and together with the owners and my group, we really wanted to see if we would approve this to become a public restaurant. We didn't seed about 45, 50 people instead of 30, but being able to pay a loan back as well and make it financial feasible to purchase this property. We want to work with locals, of course, all the local farms as well, I love mentorship. I'm a chef for my entire life and currently I work with young people that I would love for us to have local people work for us and mentor them to the higher end hospitality that they can then later move on and hopefully open their own place. So that's definitely a big thing. And I'm not used to read from sheets, but yeah, that's basically where I am and I was wondering if you had any questions as well. So. Thank you, support of any questions. Any questions? Thank you very much. Thank you. So this is a CUP. He's currently in a district zoned RA. So he can have his chickens that he wants. Oh, I'm sorry, you're right. This is a public hearing. He wants. Okay, I think the state cannot include people within the State of Nevada in saying they're thoughtless. So related to the state of Nevada are folks Brother Lawrence who is also a relative of so-called federal state. Will the administration of a state of Nevada try to included 너무 daran so this is just more in the in theos holidays zoom and show too many. the street. It's just a lovely place. I've gotten to know Jan, the chef, and his vision for the place is just wonderful. It's not going to be a fast food restaurant. It's going to be a lovely place with the only 15 rooms. And I love the, you know, farm to table. They're going to grow, they're going to have chickens. I just can't say enough about how wonderful a place it is. And it's good to keep the history of that beautiful place. So that's all. I have nothing but praise. Thank you. That's the only person signed up. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak about the CUP? Please. We have two, but you can line up and name and magisterial district, please. I'm Jason McDonald. We're farming right there in the immediate area of the Volclues Inn. We've met with the potential owners. They seem like they got a good plan together. It will be a few changes, and we actually border the property on two sides. We're supporting it and would appreciate the change. We're going to make it a viable business for the county. Thank you, sir. Is there another? Hi, I'm Mike Kaplanis. I'm one of the original owners after restoration of the Inn at Volclues Spring. Our vision fell something short of what Jan's vision is, but we still live on property adjacent to the Inn. Thank you. We're looking forward to working with him, living there yet for many years to come and enjoying Jan and his vision. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I'm Bennett Carr. I'm currently Jan's counterpart at the dining room in Goodstone. I'm sorry, do you live in the same district? Do you know? Yes, I do. Very good. Thank you. I'm a sommelier dining room manager. I've also been in the restaurant business since I was 14. Jan's got a few years on me, but we both met in the Washington, D.C. area. I actually grew up in Montgomery, Alabama. And we both have a real passion for hospitality and me, particularly Southern. My family immigrated to Virginia in the early 15 or late 1500s and moved back to the Shenandoah Valley in the mountains to avoid the disease in Jamestown. I moved to Virginia a few years ago and worked in boutique hotels and resorts that are Michelin level and boutique quality like this. And I think this property is truly special. And I cannot say enough wonderful things about Jan. You know, it's amazing to meet another chef that you sort of align on everything with culturally and the vision for the area. And for me and my family's heritage, interesting enough, his family, you know, in Belgium, the apple orchards around remind him from home. And for me, you know, the mountains are a sense of place and peace. And it's truly gorgeous. And, you know, look forward to helping grow this area and bring more of the luxury, hospitality, and culinary dreams that the rest of Virginia has experienced to this part. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Hearing no one, I'll close the public comment section of this hearing. Board, do you have any questions or comments? Anyone here? Mr. Chairman, I live literally four and a half miles from this area. And I mean, I'm excited. The neighbors are excited. I've heard nothing but positive comments about this. So I just think it's, again, we're going to have a small business here. And it's great. Thank you, Supervisor. Yeah, we did receive one or two electronic comments, I should acknowledge. And they were all positive. There were no negative comments online either. So if we're ready, we can vote on approval of this CUP. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a motion for CUP number 1123 for Rockloose Spring Holdings to be approved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Just one comment, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the effort you're doing, Mr. African. I appreciate your efforts here to save 18th century homes. I really wish you well on this. If there's no other discussion, finally I'll get this right. We'll proceed to the vote. On approval of the CUP, Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Well. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Chairman votes aye, and the CUP is approved. Good luck. And the next item, 12B, an ordinance to amend Frederick County Code, Chapter 165, Zoning, with regard to signs. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is an amendment to our sign ordinance section of the zoning ordinance to remove an extraneous reference, which is no longer necessary. We used to contain the types of signs that were allowed in each zoning district in those respective zoning districts. We've removed that as part of our comprehensive sign amendment back in 2020. We've removed that as part of our comprehensive sign amendment back in 2020. We've removed that as part of our comprehensive sign amendment back in 2020. But there was one outlier reference that was left, so we need to remove that to clarify and clean up the zoning ordinance. The second part of this proposal is an increase in the height allowance for signs in the RA rural area zoning district. Presently, the allowed height is four feet, and this would increase that height to eight feet, effectively doubling the height of the RA signs. The sign area allowed in the RA district would remain the same and unchanged, which would remain at 50 square feet. This is a relatively simple. This is a relatively simple. This is a relatively simple ordinance amendment to get a cleanup and a change to the allowed sign height in the RA zoning district. Following a public hearing, staff is seeking a recommendation. Following a public hearing, staff is seeking a recommendation. Following a public hearing, staff is seeking a recommendation. Looks like this is an old slide. Seeking action by the Board of Supervisors on this proposed ordinance amendment. Thank you. Are there questions about the presentation? Any questions? Very good. This is a public hearing. Has anyone signed up to speak? No, sir. Would anyone like to speak about this ordinance amendment? Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing portion, the public comment portion of this public hearing, and proceed to Board Member discussion. Hearing no discussion, Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to adopt ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code Chapter 165 zoning signs as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Very good. Then we'll vote on adopting these ordinance changes. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Leroy. Aye. And the Chair votes aye. The ordinance amendments are adopted. We move to Item 13, Planning Commission Business of Other Kinds. Item 13A is a Comprehensive Plan Amendment, number 04-23, the Sargent property. This is the one we held a public hearing on? We held, right, we held a public hearing before. I don't believe that another presentation is planned. We do, and there's no public comment again. So how would the Board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion that we move to approve the expansion. of the urban development area and land use designation change on the Sargent property. We have a motion. Do we have a second? I'll second it. We have a motion and a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman? Supervisor? I'd like to make, on this property, there is a potential strategic location for a new fire station, Station 22, maybe in the vicinity of Tasker Road between White Oak Road and Route 522. I think this needs to be included in the plan. I think this needs to be included in the record as we go forward with this. This may be of value to the County. Thank you. Any other discussion? I believe we took that out and put it in a recreation area? Correct. In that parcel? Yes, you're correct. I was going to clarify. I think so. So the language that we have in our agenda still refers to the original proposal, which was high density housing. Correct. And the original proposal was to have a new fire station. I think that's correct. I think that's correct. I think that's correct. I think that's correct. I think that's correct. And that's the definition of housing and that potential use. But as Mr. Pearson explained to me earlier today, that what controls is the proposal itself, which is the details in the package. So not all 122 acres, as the original language states, would be approved for housing. And it wouldn't be high density. It would be low density, as currently proposed. And then that five or six acres north of Tasker Road is, what's the description now? That is park. Park. And it's to remain as such. It doesn't conflict with Mr. Dunn's addition of a text amendment. I think he intended to just include a general statement that this area, in a general nature, may be appropriate, but not to designate it on the park property or even the property in question. So yeah. So that's correct. Okay. That's a clarification or an amendment? Mr. Pearson's comment is a clarification of what I said, which is apropos. Okay. So we have an amendment. I'm sorry. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? I'd like to make a couple comments, Mr. Chair. I think it's a good use of land near Robert E. Yale or Middle School to have some housing nearby there. However, I do have two concerns. One being the added traffic on the road. One, White Oak Road, which I think could become problematic, particularly between or really on the whole stretch of White Oak Road from 277 to the south to Tasker Road on the north. I think the only part of that White Oak Road that's going to really be under control under this property would be basically from Aylor, from the northern border of Aylor up to Tasker. But I'd definitely like to see if this motion passes and this comprehensive plan passes and this process moves on into the zoning process that I'd like to see what the improvements for White Oak Road would be, particularly from Aylor to the north to Tasker Road. The second concern I have is the suitability of water. The suitability of walking from the property, assuming it's residential, for students that are going to Aylor. I'd have a concern about those students walking along White Oak Road and would be looking to see what provisions are put in the plan to have a safe walking path from an internal portion of the property down to the border of Aylor and onto the Aylor property for those middle school students who are choosing the property. Mr. Chair. I would be interested in the walk to school. Thank you. Thank you. Any other comments on this motion? Yes, sir. So I concur with your concerns. I think the county's going to have to think carefully as we do at all our transit, also south on White Oak, although this property wouldn't directly be affecting it. The road even gets narrower and there's a sharp turn. So that's something you need to worry about. Also, there's a lot of homes to the west of Aylor School. And there would potentially be that park to the north across Tasca Road. So it behooves us, if we approve this, that we're going to have to keep in mind that we need to make sure there is safe access for children walking to school or returning or going to the park from the new housing and from the existing housing. So all those are concerns we'll have to take up in our county transportation planning and in potential future zoning changes here. So those are my comments. Any further? Supervisor Lockridge? I do. I do. I do have one concern. I realize the proximity to Aylor is great. So looking in the future, housing makes sense. There's housing all around. My only concern truly is what Supervisor Lero said, and that'll be addressed during rezoning. But also, this is, it's RA right now, but in our plan, it's mixed-use light industrial. So taking away tax dollars from industry and residential. I don't know. I do. But I do know that the potential, as Supervisor Dunn always says, is adding a burden to our tax basis. So those are just some thoughts. No. Those are definitely concerned things we have to balance. So the public is reminded, the Aylor school was put there for whatever reason, at the time, when it was a mixed-use industrial and that created the discord between, potential discord. When I talk to neighbors, they didn't want to see business. I can be that person for so long. next to the middle school and you know that's that's just something we inherited at this stage. Any further comments? I believe we have an a motion and a second to approve this comprehensive the plan amendment 04-323 the Sargent property so if we're ready to vote. Supervisor Liero. Oh aye. Supervisor Lockridge. No. Vice Chairman McCann Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Chairman votes aye and the plan amendment is approved. Next item is 13 B I believe RZ is rezoning correct me if I'm wrong 05-23 Round Hill crossing phase 2 it's a minor proffer amendment. Sir good evening again Mr. Chairman members of the board this is Amy. This is a minor proffer amendment to the approved proffer statement with rezoning application 03-03 which is the WWW project to modify the number of allowed commercial entrances along Route 50 West. This is a minor proffer amendment and as such it does not require public hearing so this is an action item for your consideration this evening. Directing your attention to the screen this is the subject property outlined in blue that's subject to this minor proffer amendment reorientation Northwestern Pike. Allite Ali is along the Southern property boundary what it is now retail boulevard forms Eastern property boundary and this development here to the immediate east is the Roundhill crossing shopping center and the Walmart Supercenter. Which you all will be familiar with. The proposed rezoning does not propose a change in the use of the property or the density or any anything of that nature it's only changing the regulations regarding access to the site. so in that regard the proffer amendment has remainen 5.0. Determining the recycling and stop Marvel里 Four D Shops is what are not public are clear on what he youtubeкіugler will be proposed on the 그러니까 05- Ilana Khantler shares manager of construction current property common اس well the property is now a property similar to homeerweise Business Nikoli to the or the proffers remain in conformance with the comprehensive plan. Route 50 is a primary highway, and our Eastern Road Plan states that pertaining to new entrances along highways to limit the number of accesses or to evaluate the accesses so they do not contribute to a change in the traffic pattern or diminish the levels of service. And evaluating this application, that's the lens that we're looking through, and VDOT determined that the entrance that was proposed was allowable and would not degrade the transportation network. So, again, this amendment would enable one additional right-in-only entrance for a total of up to four entrances on the development. Three of those entrances, or sorry, rather two of those entrances already exist. There's a right-in to the Round Hill Crossing Shopping Center, and you have Retail Boulevard, and then there's a future point of access, which I'll point out on the next slide. And, again, all the previously approved proffers regarding the use of the property and other requirements. The requirements for the development of this commercial area remain unchanged. This is the generalized development plan, including with the application, again, speaks to those three entrances that are currently allowed by the proffers. The first is, again, the right-in entrance here, Retail Boulevard, and then a future point of access at the crossover on Route 50. Zooming in a little bit on the GDP, this is that right-in-only that's proposed to the lot that's west of Retail Boulevard that would be enabled. So, this is the right-in entrance that's being enabled by this minor proffer amendment. Not stated explicitly in the application, but the owners and the applicant are looking to develop a convenience store with a gas fueling at this location. So, this was a requirement for that potential business to locate on this site. So, again, this is a minor proffer amendment. It does not require a public hearing this evening. The Planning Commission recommended approval of this rezoning application on January 3rd. And, following your discussion, the decision by the Board of Supervisors on this minor proffer amendment. Ron Mishlotsky with the Pannoni Associates is here this evening representing the applicants. And I'm sure he'd be happy to answer any questions if you have them as well. So, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any questions from the Board about the presentation? Any questions? Thank you. Would Mr. Pannoni, is he asking to present, or? No. Very good. Thank you. So, does the Board have any questions? Okay. So, we have a motion to approve the application of the applicant. None heard. Thank you very much for being available to us. How would the Board like to handle this? This is in the Gainesboro District. So, I'll go ahead and make a motion to approve this minor amendment. Second. I'm sorry. Second, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? No discussion. Then, I believe this Board is ready to vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chairman? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye, and this ordinance amendment is approved. Sorry, the minor proffer amendment is approved. 13C is the ordinance amendment on home cottage, home occupation and cottage occupation. This is an item for information. Yes, good evening again, Mr. Chairman. This is the first of a series of three. Ordinance amendments for information and discussion purposes this evening. This is a proposed amendment to the regulations for home occupations and cottage occupations to address stated concerns from this Board, the Planning Commission, and the public about operating home and cottage occupations in the county. Many of you will recall that this item was before you earlier, or late in 2023. Staff has taken your comments into consideration and has changed our proposal and brought that back to you for further consideration this evening. So, current standard, you all are quite familiar with these regulations. The home occupation is an occupation or profession customarily carried out fully within a dwelling unit. It does not allow for any employees except those persons residing on the premise, and it's limited to five customers a day. Home occupations are a by-right use in a residential and rural zoning district. A home occupa-or rather, a cottage occupation is a little more intense than a home occupation. It's an occupation or profession carried out within a dwelling or an occupant's home. necessar voyage and Jug hoe perpмет a and consideration sill Ifly, B tore regarding the most recent application for cottage occupation and again, other comments that have been received by staff over the years. We're proposing several changes to our home occupation and cottage occupation rules. I would note that the proposed changes are shown in yellow for clarity purposes, but walking through what is allowed under a home occupation as proposed, we would allow it to be conducted, continue to be conducted in a principal dwelling, or we would allow it to be in a detached structure in the RA district only, and that no more than five people not residing on the premises per day are permitted. That would be customers and or employees. The change would be to include employees and that allowance of no more than five persons on the property per day not residing on the premise and an addition of the allowance for one commercial vehicle for that business. In regards to the cottage occupation, again, those proposed changes continue to be shown in yellow. The big change here would be allows for up to 10 persons per day not residing on the premise. This would include customers and or employees not limiting it to only one employee and more than one commercial vehicle per day. Staff would like to point out that home occupations and cottage occupations are intended to be a business incubation space and a space for business growth in the county. There will be businesses in certain districts that are not appropriate for home and cottage occupations given the nature of the use, the intensity of the use. Those businesses where appropriate, the homeowner or the property owner has the ability to rezone the property if our comprehensive plan, enables them to rezone or they would need to find a location in the appropriate business or industrial district to operate that use. So not every use that people wanna do on their properties is gonna fit into one of these neat little boxes, unfortunately, but again, the purpose of the home occupation, the cottage occupation is business incubation and business growth and small business development. So going back through the meeting summary, our Development Review Committee discussed this item in July and recommended that it go forward for further discussion. The Planning Commission discussed it on the 6th. The Board, you all discussed this on November 8th and at this time we're seeking direction from the Board on whether this item is ready to go forward for a public hearing. At such time we'd bring it back to you and you would get to take feedback from the public at that point. So I'm of course happy to answer any questions you have regarding this amendment. So this is an item for information and discussion. Any questions or discussion? Vice Chairman. Mr. Klein, I wanna be sure because we recently had the business that was here and they had a vehicle and one employee, so what we're proposing here, it would eliminate the issue that this small business had, is that correct? Correct. That business was a home-based plumbing business. They had one outside employee that came to the property infrequently to gather supplies and they had commercial vehicles, vans that they used for their business. Under this new change, they would not have been required to get a conditional use permit. They would have been allowed, under the home occupation rules that are being proposed. Thank you, sir. I think with the information we have that this is probably ready to go to public hearing, I would certainly agree with that. Any other questions or comments? I think this is a much fast improvement. I think I'm prepared to go to public hearing. Do we need a vote to take it to public hearing or is consensus good enough? Consensus I think is appropriate. We have a consensus to go to public hearing. Thank you. Does it need to be a roll call or can it be just a consensus vote? We need to make a motion. Okay, so we need then a motion. A motion to approve the resolution in our packet to take it to public hearing, please. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Very good, then we're ready to vote on that motion. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chair votes aye and we'll take that to public hearing. And next item is another ordinance amendment for information and discussion, accessory dwellings, MDP's definitions. Yes, sir. This is another ordinance amendment for your consideration this evening. This is a package of three items that are mostly cleanup and clarity items, not as comprehensive as the item that you just discussed as it pertains to accessory dwellings, master development plans, and other minor text amendments. And I will, of course, walk through each of those changes. The first is as it pertains to our accessory dwelling regulations. This is a proposal to amend the secondary and accessory uses section to establish a new minimum square footage allowance for accessory dwellings of 500 square feet or 25% of the gross floor area of the structure, whichever is greater. Presently, we allow accessory dwellings permitted up to 25% of the primary dwelling. In cases where the home is less than 2,000 square feet, that creates a challenge when meeting the building code requirements to have a bedroom, a living space, a restroom, and a kitchen. You need about 420-ish square feet to accomplish that. So if you only get a 375 square foot allowance, you're unable to create that accessory dwelling, whether that be in your home or a detached structure, depending on the zoning district. So in consultation with the building official, we felt that 500 square feet was an appropriate minimum that everyone would get unless 25% is greater. So that is your first item for consideration. The next pertains to our master development plan requirement. This is a proposal to amend the section to reflect the county's adopted submission procedures for master development plans and to remove a remaining reference to a public meeting requirement prior to master development plan approval. Many of you have been on the board a number of years recall that we used to bring master development plans to you as a presentation item. It created some confusion and we removed that public meeting requirement. It's essentially an administrative review and approval process. At this point, and this would remove that last extraneous reference to a public meeting, which is no longer required of master development plans. The final items are other minor amendments to the definitions and terminology that's used in our zoning ordinance. The first is a change to definitions for group home, family care home, and adult care residences to remove and update language that does not conform to state and federal definitions for intellectually or developmentally disabled persons. This is again, just a proposal to change the terminology that's used. And there's a separate proposal to update word uses where principal was used incorrectly in our extractive mining, sorry, extractive manufacturing park district, and instead replace it with principal. I like to say it that way. It helps me remember what it is when referring to a primary structure. So these three items are for your consideration this evening. Again, you all did see these back in November. They were part of the home occupation, cottage occupation item, and we broke it apart for ease of discussion this evening. And staff is seeking direction on whether these three ordinance amendments are ready to go forward for a public hearing. And again, it is a resolution, so a roll call vote would be appropriate. Thank you for reminding me of that. Yes, so any discussion or questions on this? Nothing on this then. Anything here? Do we need to wait for Supervisor Wells to return? I think we should. All right, we'll hold on one second before we continue. Absolutely. So while we're killing time here, one question, we have a number of items we're approving to go to public hearing. If we have a public hearing on the same night for all of these, do we save money as a county on advertising or we still pay for each advertisement? I don't think it is a huge difference one way or another because we pretty much end up running an ad. Probably a marginal benefit to having them all together. And I don't know if Ms. Phillips can give us a better sense on that, but. You pay by the column inch. So there is a heading that would be common to all of them. So it's a minimal savings. Well, I was just killing time for Supervisor Wells. So we've heard these minor amendments and we've had the information discussion. Would you like to have time to review it or are you familiar with what we're doing? I'm fine with it. Very good. I know where we're going with it. Then we need a roll call vote if we are ready. Mr. Chairman, I believe we need a motion to adopt the resolution that was in our packet that would address the accessory dwellings, the MDPs and also the updated definitions. And I will make that motion to move it forward. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Very good. Then we're ready to vote on approval of this to go to public hearing. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Chair votes aye. And this is also is approved to go to public hearing. Next item, 13E ordinance amendment, telecommunication towers. Your last and final item for discussion this evening. Sure to generate more comments than the preceding item. This is a proposal to amend the supplementary regulations for commercial telecommunications facilities to modify the criteria for a setback waiver, which would be granted by the board of supervisors. Presently, the board may reduce the setback for telecommunication facilities proportional to the height of the tower to reduce to no less than one half the distance of height of the wireless tower or wireless support structure. So for example, you have a 100 foot tall tower, you could reduce that setback to a minimum of 50 feet. Given the proportionality of the height to the setback. The proposed language, which was the request for this ordinance came from actually a telecommunications provider that is seeking to apply for a conditional use permit. So I want to provide a little bit of context of where this came from. The proposed language as developed by staff would allow the board to reduce that setback to what is deemed a fall zone as certified by a licensed Virginia professional engineer. And then the setback, distance shall not be reduced to less than half the distance of the height of the tower or support structure of the adjoining property with the common property line is zoned for residential use or if the principal use of the adjoining property is a residence. So a minor change in the setback requirements. So again, that first part of the change is that instead of having the step back proportional to the height of the tower, the engineer would determine what the fall zone is for that particular tower based on its height. And if it was certified by a Virginia engineer, the board could grant a waiver to that reduction of the setback. The second part of this change is that where there's an adjoining residential use or residentially zoned property, the setback would be no less than the one half the height of the tower. So hopefully that provides some clarity for you all. The Development Review and Regulations Committee discussed this item on September the 28th and recommended the proposed changes go forward for further discussion. The Planning Commission discussed this item on November 1st and offered no comments. And at this time, staff is seeking direction from the board on if this proposed amendment is ready to go forward for a public hearing. Thank you. Are there questions or discussion? Supervisor Dunn? So I had a conversation with Mr. Pierce from this earlier. Here are my concerns. I understand that if we go to a public hearing, that we'll have an engineer coming up. So according to what you just said here, under current law, under current code, a 100-foot tower needs a 50-foot clearance. Under this new proposal, the same 100-foot tower needs a 50-foot clearance if it's next to a home. Correct? Correct. If it's next to a business, it could be something different, and it would be defined as whatever an engineer says is an appropriate fall zone. Correct. My question is, what's that appropriate fall zone? I'll give you a couple examples. What if you have an earthquake, and you've got a problem, and you need to move the building? Correct. What if you have an earthquake, and you need to move the building? Correct. What if you have an earthquake, and you need to move the building? And you have a drop of six or seven or eight feet on one side of a tower. Does that tower just lean over, et cetera? And I'm not an engineer, but that's the type of issue that I'm dealing with. Number two, making the assumption that this is a concern about public safety, if it is next to a home, the concern is it goes into a person's home and possibly kills somebody. If it goes next to a business, and that business has people in it, they're in the same situation. So why the differential if an engineer says that the fall zone is less than 50 percent? Why that differential? And I'm not putting you on the spot. If we have a public hearing, I'd like to hear an engineer answer that question on why a house versus a business that has people in it. So I'm prepared to go to a public hearing if those questions can be answered. If we can get it before that, that's fine too. But those are my concerns on this fall zone. It's undefined. I respect a certified engineer to be able to define what that is. But I'd like to hear a whole lot more on that, and especially on a what-if scenario. For example, not only an earthquake, but what if the structure of the steel, for example, doesn't fall within the parameters? Sometimes you make steel with a certain plus or minus, but if that steel doesn't meet these specs, does it still fall then within the pre-described zone, et cetera, so I'm uncomfortable as is, but I'm willing to listen to a further conversation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other comments? Mr. Klein, even though if we would move this forward with the telecommunication towers, we would still require a CUP, so each one would be a case-by-case, evaluating public buildings, VDOT right-of-ways to proximity to highways and that sort of thing? Ultimately, the board would be responsible for grading the waiver, so it would be on a case-by-case basis. It would be presented as part of your consideration of a conditional use permit, and at that time, you all would be given all the specifics of the fall zone and why that's appropriate for that height of the tower and the materials, et cetera, at that time. I can't speak to the specifics that Mr. Dunn brought up, but it would be considered on a case-by-case basis because it would ultimately still require a Board of Supervisors waiver. By appointing the ordinance amendment, you all would just enable the consideration of a fall zone as opposed to the current proportional setbacks that we require presently. And if we have an engineer, maybe, who's going to be able to, you know, if we have an engineer, maybe, who's going to be able to, you know, if we have an engineer, maybe, who's going to be able to, you know, make a certification to the fall zone and that this could be accomplished safely, does staff look at those certifications to make sure that we do, in fact, have a certified professional? I mean, do we evaluate that, or we are just taking a blanket statement? When telecommunication tower conditional use permits come through for review, they typically include what is effectively a site plan and all the other schematics, and we would look for those to be sealed and stamped by a professional engineering seal. So, certainly can't evaluate the credentials of that particular engineer, but if they have the seal, that would check our box and say, yes, this meets the requirement. Thank you, sir. Any other questions or discussion? So, to follow up to Mrs. Slaughter's comment, is it possible that two engineers would come to different conclusions, both given the same data, but you might look at one person might say, yay, and one person might not say, yay. So, the certification alone, does that give you confidence, or is it possible that two engineers looking at the same data might draw a different conclusion, or a different fall zone area, you know, 10 feet versus 50 feet, et cetera? And that's a question I always like to have explored. Yep, it's a highly specialized type of engineering. It's certainly outside of my expertise. The professional engineering, it's a fairly rigorous process, and requires upkeep and maintenance and things of that nature. So, we'd accept it on all of our other plans without question. I think that would be our position at this time. If you all wanted to do some other level of review, certainly we could incorporate that or what. I'm not asking for that if I get 10 engineers and they all conclude with the same situation. My concern is if you have 10 engineers and they do not all conclude. So, if your feelings are that they all, you know, 10 engineers, and they all conclude with the same situation, my concern is if you have 10 engineers, then they do not all conclude. So, if you have 10 engineers and they all do conclude, given the same data, then I'm comfortable. But I just don't know, and that's why I'm asking the question. And you all will get to consider this on a case-by-case basis. You could evaluate the adjoining properties and take into account public comment and things of that nature as well. So, you all would be given another opportunity to look at this as it pertains to specific projects in various areas of the county. Thank you. So, I have a question building on some of the questions already asked. I think we'll hear from the public, of course, when this goes to public hearing. My suspicion is the same as what seems implicit in this presentation, that the public would be much more concerned about towers near their home than businesses that they, business perhaps, visit infrequently or occasionally. However, it just occurred to me, what about schools? Would schools fit under this, where with an engineering approval, the tower could be placed closer? I can imagine daycare center. The public might react. There might be other categories of things that they wouldn't want to see this requirement reduced. Certainly, if the adjoining property was zoned RP, which is a residential performance, and then enables things like daycares and schools in it, that would prohibit the consideration of a waiver, considering the fall zone. If the property is RA, like Gaineswood High School is on RA property, it's not a resident, so it would not apply in that case where the common property line was up against RA not being used as a resident. So, certainly. In that case, it's a CUP, so we could deny it if we... Correct. Yes, sir. Correct. Sorry, any other comments or questions? Yeah, I've got the same concerns other supervisors have already addressed, particularly when we haven't talked about roads, nearby roads as well. So, that would be another concern. Yeah, I know I discussed with Mr. Pearson the thought that I'm sure we have some citizens who would like to actually increase, the standoff distance when it's near their home or perhaps other places, but he pointed out there is a pro and con to that. I brought it up because this is something we could trade off. We grant relief in one area, maybe raise it when there's residences involved. The problem with that is if we raise it too high and they can't build a tower there, they're more likely to move to the RA. They'll have to build an even higher tower, to get the job done, though that's an area where we have peer view sheds that we'd be interfering with. So, I don't know how to trade that off, but I did wanna raise that issue that we've heard with other towers, there are some people that are upset with where they're going to go, and we're gonna hear more of that in Gainesboro, in Shawnee, we already have them coming forward. So, I just put that out there for the board's consideration that is half tower height standoff from residence, are we comfortable, that's where we're at today. It'd be a big thing to change that, but I just wanted to put it out there. Any other questions or discussion? Mr. Chairman, I think that it would be good to move it to a public hearing so we could hear the public speak on this, because we've had a lot of towers come through in the last couple years here with planning commission on up the Board of Supervisors, and the discussions have always come into it's a monopole, is it gonna fall straight down, is it gonna fall on the property, so I think at this point it's ready for public discussion. I'm not disagreeing. Do we need a motion to do that as before? Yes. I can make that motion, Mr. Chairman, directing the planning commission, or the planning staff to hold a public hearing regarding chapter 165 zoning ordinance. We have a motion, do we have a second? Second. We have a motion to second, any further discussion? Very good. Very good, then we'll vote on moving this to public hearing. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chairman McCann-Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chairman votes aye, and this item goes to public hearing. We move on to item 14, board liaison reports, are there any? Hearing none, we'll move to 15, citizen comments. Do we have anyone signed up for citizen comments? At the end of the meeting? I'm Cynthia Schneider. Thank you. Good evening, everyone. I'm Cynthia Schneider. I live in the Shawnee District. I'm here tonight representing the top of Virginia Regional Chamber. Our organization represents over 850 businesses in the Clark County, City of Winchester, and Frederick County jurisdictions. And one of our legislators' priorities this year is to create and maintain better synergy with our government legislators. So I'm here just tonight to continue to build that relationship with you. I want to especially thank you for the thoughtful consideration of our businesses that were here tonight. I really appreciate you thinking of them and how to keep them moving forward to provide the services and products our constituents need. So thank you for that. Tonight I brought with me, and Ms. Phillips will bring them to you after the meeting, our 2024-2025 community map and our voice of business. These are annual publications that we put out to help support the community, help make our nation, our state, and our community a better place to live. We're also here to support our neighbors, know about the businesses that are doing good work in the community. I wanted to also share with you a couple of things that we've done in the chamber just recently to help support the business community. We are advocating strongly for your team here to get good transportation and visibility of our region and the need for infrastructure support from the state level and the federal level. So a team of us went down to Virginia Chamber Day last week and we met with delegates Wiley, delegates Oates, and others. And we're really excited to be here today. We're excited to be here tonight. And I want to thank our legislators, and I'm going to thank Senator French and Lieutenant Governor Sears, along with the delegate Delaney, who is the head of the Transportation Committee. We brought each of them a metal die-cast vehicle, like a little matchbox car. And we wrote I-81 on it to leave it on their desk to keep us top of mind that the top of Virginia needs assistance in getting our roads supported, so infrastructure. Another wonderful thing that we're instituting this year, and many of you may be familiar with our community leadership program, it's a 27-year-old program that helps to create leaders in our community, help them understand the back workings of our community. And we're introducing that this year to our rising juniors and seniors. We'll be offering a program called the Arising Leadership Program. This program will be fully funded by sponsors so that the students will have no cost. It'll be for approximately 20 to 24 students. And this will give them an opportunity to explore career paths. They will explore different industries. They'll learn a little bit about leadership. And then on their last day, they'll have an opportunity to shadow someone in a field of interest and then present a capstone project at their graduation ceremony that night. So I thought you'd want to know about that. It's a wonderful thing that we think that the business community is going to offer for our students. Again, thank you for the opportunity to speak with you. And again, thank you for your work here tonight. Thank you very much. That was at the end of the sign-up list. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Seeing no one, I close citizen comments. Board of Supervisor comments, do we have any? Mr. Chairman, it's up on the screen. We really need for constituents to participate. Go out to the Frederick County website and give your input on the Western Frederick County land use plan, please. This is for Sunnyside area up there by James Wood. I think it's a wonderful. The staff did this with the NELIP and getting the feedback is just very beneficial and helpful. So, and Mr. Chairman, with the other thing, I want to thank Cynthia Snyder. I had the privilege of going with her down to Richmond and attending with the delegates and the Senator. And I just appreciate what the top of Virginia Chamber of Commerce is doing for this area. So. Thank you. Any other board comments? I'm not sure if this is appropriate or not at this time, but I wanted to see if maybe we could ask staff, the planning department staff, to take a look at repair garages, auto garages that are, I believe, typically in the RA district. And I've had a constituent who has reached out to me regarding auto bodies and spray, and I'm not sure why that's being left out of there. But is that something we would need a text amendment for? And is it appropriate? Supervisor Lockridge and I spoke about this issue as well. And I think it's the same person. I've spoken with the zoning administrator and presented an argument for how to interpret it to allow the bedlining use to occur under the existing ordinance. And I think he's been accepting of my logic on that. So I don't think we need an ordinance amendment to meet the needs of that individual. Excellent. Thank you so much. I appreciate that. Any other comments? Great. Then, Vice Chairman. I move we adjourn. Do we have a second? Second. Everyone who wishes to adjourn, say aye. Aye. Anyone against? We are adjourned. Anybody want to live here?
