Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2024-09-04
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=235
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you Joseph водяйм combinations. We're glad to have you, and thank you very much for Frederick County Planning Commission to order. As you please stand with us, and I'll ask Mr. Thomas to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance. The flag is behind us. Pledge of Allegiance. Pledge of Allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. As you please take a moment of silence and reflect and say a prayer for the families of those victims in Georgia who have suffered a loss today. Thank you. Next, the order of business is adoption of the agenda. Do we have a motion to adopt the agenda as presented? So moved. Second. Motion and a second. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? And the agenda is adopted. Item five, meeting minutes from our June 5th meeting. Are there any additions or edits to those minutes? Seeing none, is there a motion for acceptance of the minutes? Move for approval. Move for approval. Second. We have a second. All those in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? Aye. And the minutes are approved. July 3rd meetings. Any edits or revisions to those? Seeing none, I'll accept a motion for approval. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? And those are also accepted. Moves us to item six, committee reports. Mr. Bishop is going to be the first to make a motion. I'm going to pinch hit for me tonight on the Transportation Committee. So, Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Transportation Committee did meet on August 26th. We had one action item that was actually under the other portion of the agenda regarding Renaissance Drive for a general fund additional request of $434,788. There was a motion made to go ahead and recommend that the committee meet on August 26th. We did not find approval of that to the Board of Supervisors. However, that motion did not pass on a two-to-two tie. The committee was updated on the Western Frederick Land Use Plan draft that's been circulating, and we've had a number of public meetings now on. I updated the committee on the status of our revenue sharing and transportation alternatives projects, which just for the commission, the Planning Commission's edification, all five of those applications were approved in one form or another. So, those are going forward. And as well, I shared the MPO's transit feasibility study, which the committee has taken that as information at this point, and we're going to have further discussion on that in the future. Thank you very much, sir. Are there any other committee reports? Frederick Water? Ms. Brumback? Yes. Our Frederick Water met, and probably the biggest news that most affects most of our community is that we are still under a drought watch, even though we've had the rain and thunderstorms recently, which has helped. The groundwater level is still comparable to November of 23, and that was when we were in a drought warning. So, that still indicates that our groundwater levels are worse today than they were in August of 2023. Recognizing that, Frederick Water utilizes the groundwater as a source of public water. Frederick Water is maintaining the drought warning. Ms. Brumback? Yes. We are still under a drought watch declaration and encouraging the water conservation and responsible water use. This declaration also should be recognized by those who are under private water wells, which nearly half of our Frederick County residents, housing, and the population level uses groundwater from the wells. So, we're just encouraging water conservation and responsible water use. Thank you very much. We are glad to have Mr. Falk. Mr. Falk is with us from the Winchester Planning Commission. Good evening, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. Kind of quiet right now over with our stuff. I think during the summer it dips off a little bit. Quick meeting yesterday, but I'll go over a couple of things that we have. We were going over procedurally for administrative authorization and the ways that those need to proceed. We have a couple of developments that are working on an Abrams Crossing development that's over near Jubal Early and Harvest Drive. Those are townhomes. The Zero Pack project is progressing along right now. That's a fantastic project. That's a fantastic project. That's a fantastic project. That's a fantastic project in the old Zero Pack. Let's see. Opportunities for repairing or repurposing existing buildings. We've had a few of those that have come up with us as well. Smaltz Townhomes. That's on National Avenue. That is progressing right now. And then we have one which is going to be an LDS Temple on Merrimans Lane that's going to be happening, and it's a very gorgeous design that they have. Otherwise, kind of quiet for us. We're going to get back into it next month. Very good. Thank you, sir. Thank you. And last but certainly not least, Supervisor Leroux. Good evening, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chair. The Board of Supervisors has met twice since your last meeting on July the 3rd. Those meetings were July 10th and August 14th. I'm just going to cover the highlights of those two meetings. In the July 10th Board of Supervisors meeting, the proposed Golds Hill Road and Upper Ridge Road through truck restrictions were approved by the board. Also, rezoning. 0-3-24 for Snowden Bridge and Stevenson Village 2 was postponed until the August 14th meeting. And then in the August 14th meeting, that was denied. Motion was to deny that, and that motion passed. Also, July 10th, ordinance to amend Frederick County Code Chapter 165 on zoning, churches and places of worship, and nationally chartered fraternal lodges or civic clubs, social centers, and their related club facilities. That was approved. Also, July 10th, ordinance to amend Frederick County Code Chapter 165 zoning, definitions and corrections for conference events, centers, data centers, solid waste collection, and materials recovery facilities was approved. And finally, on July 10th, Silver Lake LLC Round Hill Crossing minor proffer amendment was approved. On the August 14th. Meeting of the conditional use permit 0-3-24 for 172 Firehouse LLC in Barber Singhass for a landscaping contract business was approved. And the subdivision waiver number 0-3-24 for Darien LLC was approved. And that brings you up to date. Thank you very much, sir. That takes us to our next item, item 7, citizen comments. If you're here this evening and you'd like to address the Planning Commission, you're welcome to do so at this time on items that are not on our agenda for public hearing this evening. So, if you do wish to speak to us, we ask you limit your comments to three minutes and state your name and magisterial district. Would anybody like to speak to the Planning Commission? Seeing none, I'll close the citizen comment period. We'll move on to item number 8, rezoning number 0-6-24 for Fruit Hill and Mr. Bishop. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Let's try that again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Commission. As you have noted, this was rezoning 0-6-24 Fruit Hill. Some of you may recall this from last year. The Commission last saw this. On May the 17th of 23, at which time it was rezoning 10-22. For those who are familiar with it, I'll note that what you saw on that date, you're going to see again today. It's unchanged from that point. This is a request to rezone 220 acres from RA, a rural areas district, to a mixture of 189.08 acres of M1, or light industrial, 20.64 acres of TM. Okay. Which is our technology and manufacturing district. And finally, 10.34 acres of B2, or general business. I will note that should this rezoning be ultimately successful, it will be the first incidence of TM in the county. Just to simplify it as much as I can, this rezoning would construct approximately five buildings, varying sizes, totaling approximately 2.4 million square feet of space. Okay. Okay. Because it already does that for another 8,000 square feet exactly. Therefore, we'll have to change it accordingly. That says, we got 라 British Mark of the E sönga, so we're saving 8,000 square feet as a dan per se gallery in place with a search bar that goes with the siteNEY. Where we do haveитель and local billboards, and that would include our sector, né? Q. and we are immediately west of that with these two large parcels outlined in blue here. Here you have the current zoning, and immediately to the east of the properties in question, you have in the red is B3, and in blue is additional M1 or light industrial, and the rest of the surrounding properties are in your RA zoning district. In the proffers, there have been numerous use restrictions. I'm not going to read the list at you, but if you want me to, I will. I'll save that for a question. Of uses that will not be incorporated into the 189 or the M1 district, as I've already noted, this is 2.4 million square feet, of which 300,000 of those 2.4 million is reserved for a potential data center. There's a landscaped berm along the Carroll. It's a subcontinent subdivision as well as Ridgeway Estates. It includes the relocation of Zachary and Lane, which I'll point out more specifically in the following slides. Westbound left turn lane on West Church Road, on Rest Church Road at future Fruit Hill Road. Additional right-of-way, a cul-de-sac construction and paving, as well as a development traffic restriction on Rubuck Lane. Route 11 intersection upgrades with Rest Church. Within six months. A VDOT plan approval for that. No entrances onto the property other than from Fruit Hill Road. So Fruit Hill Road intersection with Rest Church would be the only place you would be seeing traffic from this park come in or out to the existing road system. Dedication of 104 foot of right-of-way and construction of two lanes with any required turn lanes of Fruit Hill Road itself through the limits of the property. Generally shown on the GDP, which once again I'll be getting to in a future slide here. A pro-rata share of a potential signal at the intersection of Fruit Hill Road and Rest Church Road should that become warranted with the calculations for that pro-rata share to not include through traffic on Rest Church Road. It would only be development. It would be based on, frankly, development traffic from this parcel or the parcel to, you know, vehicles, trips trying to access, whether it be this parcel or the parcel to the north. Any lighting within 50 foot of any property line would be oriented perpendicular to that property and faced away from that property line. $150 and $150 per 1,000 square feet of development to fire and rescue. Now that's not every single proffer in the 12-page proffer statements. Sort of pick the wave tops for you there. On the screen to your left, once again, you have the generalized development plan. Um... Um... To give you a general idea, right here is the proposed B2 parcel where you would see potentially a hotel and restaurant. Immediately to the south of that, since this is not north-south orientation, 323 is right over there, is the TM parcel with the remainder being your M1. And you see potential building layout and location as well. And just for orientation purposes, you have Rubuck Lane here. The... The... The... For the transportation improvements, the next slide's a little cleaner, so I'm going to use that to... To show you those. I referenced the upgrades to the intersection at Route 11 and Rest Church Road. Um... Those are specific... There's a list of those in the TIA that are proffered. And basically, what they're all targeted toward is the elimination of any excess left turn stacking to the northbound side, which the applicant has proffered to implement those. Um... Um... Um... Um... It's easiest to read that list within the executive summary of your TIA. You may recall I mentioned the relocation of Zachary Ann Lane. Currently, Zachary Ann Lane comes right out here to an intersection with Rest Church immediately next to the Flying J. This would relocate that and bring it over to Fruit Hill Road. Fruit Hill Road does not currently exist, but they are proposing the right-of-way for the full eventual four-lane section, as well as construction of the two lanes there. Kind of hard even on this page to look, but there would be a westbound left turn lane from Rest Church onto Fruit Hill Road. And just pointing out, Rubuck Lane, this is where they're going to pave as well as additional right-of-way, construct the cul-de-sac, and make sure that there are no trips from Rubuck Lane into or out of the industrial park. As for... As far as any remaining notes, like I said, it's as it sat in May 17, 2023. Staff, technically, we would say that it does not fully conform with the board's adopted comprehensive plan. The reason for that is while these parcels do indeed call for a mixed-use office industrial use, the text of that plan further states EDA-targeted industries, of which warehousing, which... We understand is the proposal here is not one of, so it's a bit of a nitpick, maybe, in terms of conformity, but in terms of specifically, no, it does not conform with the comprehensive plan in that way. And it also does not address the I-81 northbound ramp issues that are identified in the TIA, which that was identified for you previously as well. This time, we are seeking... Rather, following the public hearing, we are seeking a recommendation of the board of supervisors on this proposed rezoning. We do have this evening with us Mr. John Foote representing the applicant, as well as the applicant, Mr. Dan DiLello and Mr. John Knott, I saw back there as well. Should you have any questions for the applicant, they have not provided a presentation so far this evening. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Are there any questions for Mr. Bishop while we have him? To my left. No questions? To my right. What was your comment on no-through traffic? Turn your mic on. What was your comment again? I missed it on the no-through traffic. So, there's a proffered pro-rata share should a signal become needed at the intersection of Fruit Hill Road and the, pardon me, and Rest Church Road, and when you're calculating pro-rata share, it was important to us in working with the applicant that that basically not include, all our folks who are already there. So, the applicant has previously adjusted that proffer to make clear that regular through traffic on Rest Church Road would not be used as part of that pro-rata share calculation. Yes. Good evening. May I ask what happened to this proposal after, you know, we saw it in May of last year? Can I ask what happened? Honestly, I have to defer to the applicant. In terms of what, it ended up being withdrawn. So, that's kind of where my knowledge ends. I don't know all the ins and outs that led to that, but it was withdrawn and now has been refiled. Any other questions? Yes, Mr. DeHagde. Good evening. Looking through the VDOT's comments on the project, they make some comments regarding the TIA and the TIA being used to identify what the impacts might be, because, you know, we're not going to be able to get a lot of data out of it. Yes. Or which uses not sometime in the TIA in the near future. And lower userfic rental rates is capacitate to say that there's a loss. So, could that be based on a certain traffic count? Based on kind of a land use? So, those use uses that are all proffered out could have impact of the higher number of trips? Is that being accounted for in this, the other possible land uses not being accounted for in their current TIA? Yes, the applicant has proffered, actually. Bear with me as I get to the exact proffer. because that came up. So on that portion of the property to be rezoned to the M1 district, as depicted on the GDP, the applicant may construct not more than 2,125,500 gross square foot of warehousing ITE use group 150, as depicted on the GDP, and in compliance with relevant Frederick County ordinance, of which not more than 300,000 square foot may be high cube cold storage. And they went on in the next proffer to basically say, with those exceptions that they outlined previously, there's no other developments that they could, no other uses that they could develop on that site. So on the BDOT comments where they talk about the potential use as generating trips that are 3X or 5X with the current TIA. These proffers were up, the proffer 1.6 update came after those comments. Okay, thank you. Yes, sir. Mr. Kearns. One more question. And we've received some comments about this, and this came up with another rezoning that we did earlier in the year. But if there were to be a data center in there, the sound always, always comes up. Is, I didn't see anything in the proffer statement about any sort of a sound restriction, or then meeting any sort of a decibel. But what is the minimum, or what is the maximum, I guess, allowed out of that zoning? You're going to catch me short on the actual regulations. We have, we are either in the process or recently have updated our ordinance specific to the TM guidelines, which would actually address the sound component, as well as a number of other components of potential data center development. Okay. So, unless they were trying to exceed the ordinance and do even better, there wouldn't necessarily be a proffer for that. Okay, thank you. Anything else? Ms. Brubeck. On the TM portion. Yes, ma'am. And we may have talked about this the last time. If that doesn't come to fruition, do they have to then come back and say, hey, we want to get this done? Yes, ma'am. Do you want to do B2 or B3 or M1 there? Or what happens if that TM doesn't come to fruition? Basically, yes. I was double checking the language to make sure I didn't tell you a lie. But, yeah, because proffer 1.3 is fairly specific in terms of that potential 300 square foot in which it says all other uses permitted by right or by conditional use permit are prohibited on that portion of the property rezoned to the TM district. So, theoretically, a number of years go by and the applicants sitting on this property with nothing to do, they would still need to come back to seek some greater abilities. Yes, Ms. Brannon. I have a question concerning the data center ordinance. If this gets approved now before that ordinance is finished, I mean, how would they have to follow? The TM ordinance is already in place, but in terms of more specific regulations that may be anything not adopted yet by the time they were actually trying to build a data center would not be enforceable. Would not be enforceable. That's correct. Because I went to the, well, I'll do it during our discussion. Okay. Anything else? Mr. Higgins. Mr. Bishop. Sir. Last 15 years, how many data centers have requested? To be in Frederick County? None. I have one question for you. On the traffic signal, I understand the pro rata. How do we know when the traffic volume reaches the point that it's warranted, that the signal's warranted? How will that be measured? Who will do that? We would coordinate that with VDOT. It's VDOT warrants that have to be met. And typically in a situation like this, we actually have VDOT run the warrants. Sometimes the applicant proffers that are on the warrants. They haven't. In this particular case. But more typically, we coordinate with VDOT. Okay. And one more question for you. I know they have proffered to abandoned right-of-way where the roads are being abandoned. Are they also going to obscure the old roadways so we don't have pavement sitting there with trucks parking on it? That's not specifically proffered. But I would allow the applicant to address that. Okay. Very good. Okay. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Mr. Foote? Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the commission, Mr. Lero, sir, from the Fair City. My name is John Foote. I'm with Walsh Colucci. I won't even spell the other names, Lubelai and Walsh. I'm here representing EQIS. And I think you're well aware that I've been coming out. I've been coming out to this county now since the 90s when I was discussing with Mr. DeHaven. He was a little boy. And this is, I think I've said this before, I'll say it again, approval or no approval, this remains my favorite jurisdiction to work in because of the courtesy that we've been treated with all the years that Mr. Menchu and I have been working out here. This case is one that's obviously been before you before. We call it Fruit Hill. This has literally not changed since the last time it was before you. It's the same case that this commission recommended approval unanimously for the last time. The question is an obvious one as to why it got removed from the docket before. It's a legitimate question, Mr. Chairman. And the answer is twofold. One of which I'm hesitant. I will never throw a politician in office or out of office under a bus. But. We had discussions with a member of the Board of Supervisors that caused the company to do an internal evaluation of whether it should continue with the process last year or whether it should wait a bit. And that also combined itself with internal discussions in the company itself about proceeding at that time. A combination of those two factors led us to decide this is the royal us. I'm going to make a decision here to pull back and to consider coming back next this year. After we. Waited the one year that you have to do. Even though we just withdrawn it could have come back sooner. We decided to wait a little longer that and to refile. Simply decided to be prudent to take a time off and come back. I'll answer any questions in a moment. There's really only one comment that I'd like to make on the staff report. And that is with respect to the transportation improvements and the TIA. Well, two, actually. One of which, as you'll recall. We are limited into what we can do as to what we say we're going to do. And the profits. This is a what what Equus does. And I think the commission is aware of this. This is probably the third or fourth project Equus has done in the county. And it does warehousing. It does it for companies large and small. But it's got several facilities here which are producing substantial revenue for Frederick County. And it has been a good neighbor for you throughout its time that we've been working with it, which is pushing on 20 years now. And one of the things that Mr. Dilella presented to the commission when we were last here was a discussion of the fact that VDOT has a certain road count that it has to do. And we understand that. It's what it does. It uses the ITE, Institutes of Transportation Engineers, Trip Generation Studies, to estimate traffic. Well, what Mr. Dilella did was actually to estimate or to count the traffic that exists at those places that he runs. And discovered that those estimates that VDOT uses are multiples of what actually has been occurring at those places that Equus runs. That said, for purposes of modeling, we used VDOT's numbers. And so the TIA is based on those. And the project works on the basis of those numbers. And we think the traffic is going to be less. And you may recall, those that were here will recall, that a gentleman from VDOT got a call from a company called Equus. And he got up and, to my surprise, I didn't know he was going to say this, got up and said that the improvements to Route 11, which will improve the turning movements going north off of Rest Church to go north on 11, those improvements themselves will actually have a more beneficial effect on traffic coming off the ramps and off the bridge than would improvements to the ramps because it will move those vehicles sooner and quicker and easier to make that turn. So we submit that what we can afford to do, because we can't rebuild ramps, even with a project this size, those improvements will actually have an immediate impact once they are, in fact, constructed and they'll be constructed at the beginning of the project. I don't really have anything to add to what the able Mr. Bishop has told you about the project because you've seen it and you've probably had a chance to look at it. So I'll answer any questions and leave you alone because you have a large docket today. I'm answering your questions if you've got them, sir. Thank you, Mr. Foote. Are there any questions to my left? None? To my right. Mr. Thomas. Mr. Foote, you've been coming out here for 30 years. Yes, sir. Have you ever been approached by any firm or has EQUIS ever been approached by any organization that wants to build a data center in Frederick County? No, sir. In the second question, and you might have to defer this to one of your folks, I was involved a long time ago in the initial development of the ITE analysis back when I was in grad school when most of these people weren't born yet. I'm sorry. But there is a safety factor that is included in the ITE calculations. Typically, what do you see as a realistic number compared to the ITE calculations? Is it 60%, 50%? I think we were talking about when they were coming up with the basis that we were doubling the numbers. That's correct. The potential. And I would say that you're safe at a 60% estimate, that 60% of the traffic will occur, as opposed to what's estimated. That's a very conservative number. We think it might be less than that, but ask me my opinion. But even at 60%, you're not putting the traffic out that is estimated. Thank you. Anything else? Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. Yes, sir. Well, that's a first. We tried to go get a sandwich before the meeting here. Mr. Chairman, we're here. We respectfully request your recommendation for approval. Thank you, Mr. Foote. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Anybody who'd wish to speak to this rezoning is welcome to do so at this time. I ask that you limit your comments to three minutes and please state your name and magisterial district when you come forward to speak. Would anybody like to speak? Yes, sir. Please come to the mic. Yes, hi. Good evening. My name is Charles Gilbert. I am the resident at 520. I live on 29 Timberlakes Lane in the Stonewall District. I have a 48-acre farm that we purchased a year ago that has a large property border with the proposed development, including the 750,000-square-foot warehouse and the nearly 600,000-square-foot warehouse. I was a municipal engineer for 10 years. I was a professional engineer as well as a professional traffic operations engineer. And just come here to try to... lay a little bit of my experience in contrast to what I've just heard from the developer here. But I was counting cars out at Penn State in 2005 and I've had a lot of experience with these types of developments. I spent a lot of time reviewing multi-use developments for 700-acre plots of land out in Lehigh County in Pennsylvania. And I've been working on a lot of these developments. From my experience there, the developers, traffic engineers, their job, and they can do it very well, is there is a million ways to manipulate the numbers in the traffic generation, you know, the traffic impact analysis. And you know, when it comes to land uses like a data center, you know, that's never been proposed here, I would definitely caution strongly. And, and... try to suggest looking at more conservative traffic numbers because I've seen townships time and time again end up on the short side of the stick when it's all said and done when it comes to those types of improvements. In Pennsylvania, the taxpayers are not responsible for the cost of traffic signal installations. There's no pro rata going on there. The roads functioned with a decent level of service at that time. The developer is responsible in full for those costs. I would gander to guess that a data center is a much lower trip generation volume of traffic trips than many other uses that could go in that land. And that's why they might have picked that land use. So, the Carroll subdivision and another estate named, they were talking about a berm. I didn't hear anything along our 700 foot of frontage. The taking credits against ITE trip generation manual is what every developer, a developer's traffic engineer from here to California does. And that's always ill advised. You definitely don't want to sell yourself. I'll be pretty shore you know, we you know on what what kind of traffic to be produced by a development like this. Thank you. Can anybody else like to speak? Yes, ma'am. Good evening. My name is Joan Kibler. I'm in the Gainsborough Magisterial District. I have lived out and the Clearbrook Whitehall area for the last Oh gosh, 40 years I travel that road, the intersection there of Route 11, I-81 and Rest Church every day, sometimes multiple times a day. And I simply don't see how the truck traffic that will be generated by a warehouse complex cannot stop up those roads. I don't see how those roads, as they're currently configured, can handle that. For that reason, I hope that you will vote to keep the zoning as it is and deny this request. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Would anybody else like to speak? Anybody else? Good evening, sir. Good evening. My name is Jamie Smith. I live in the Stonewall District. This is the first time I've been to a meeting. It sounds like the data centers are holed up. You probably know why it was tabled the last time, but nobody wants to say. You brought it up. If they get in now, then they'll put a data center in later because the zoning laws you're trying to put in now are not going to be effective and you can't stop them. As far as your traffic, if they've done a lot of centers around here, just look down the road at Route 11 at well time where you've got to sit for half an hour to get through a traffic light because nobody considered the trucks going in and out. Now you're going to do it on both ends of Route 11. 81 is already screwed up. Where's the tractor trailer is going to come in and go out? And is it going to go in one road or are you going to bring it out the back way through Thistle Lane or is it just a cul-de-sac in and back out? There's a lot of things to consider. That's about all I have. Thank you, sir. Anybody else wish to speak? Yes, sir. My name is Adam Kibler. I live at Rue Buck Lane. I'm a 5-acre lot. I didn't show you how small on that picture my house looked compared to one of their warehouses. I'm on a 5-acre lot and you could fit my house and that warehouse probably 20 times. My kids that ride their bike up and down the road are going to have to stare at that warehouse. It's going to be great when they're building it because they're going to probably do 24-hour construction. I'm going to be a little bit more careful. I'm going to be a little bit more careful. I'm going to be a little bit more careful. I'm going to keep my kids up so they can't sleep well to go to school. Just saying. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else wish to speak? If you don't mind, I understand there's a time limit. I also spent quite a bit of time doing construction inspection full-time with warehouses exactly like this. I'm sorry, it's Charles Gilbert again. Yep. of a stone wall and um yeah i've seen the what goes into the construction of these warehouses and what it takes and uh you know the the pulverization of of large uh aggregate and uh and that kind of thing and and installing stormwater pipes that uh you know can have children walk in them um that's uh not what i was looking for when i when i chose uh what i feel very blessed to now own uh a gorgeous one of the nicest uh you know farms in in frederick county according to um you know our farm viewer lender there but um that's that's not what we signed up for it's not what we're looking for we really never want to see agricultural land like this turned into an eyesore so uh we have a a beautiful place it's peaceful you know we're looking to you know have uh agricultural operations on and and not gigantic warehouses so thank you thank you okay anybody else going once and twice i'll close the public hearing mr foot would you like to respond to any of these comments no sir thank you very much thank you sir mr bishop can you summarize for us yes sir i want to start by making sure i clarify my answer to mr kerns earlier uh regarding the allowed uses on the m1 because i did misspeak i've mixed up two proffers however proffer 1.6.1 as regards the m1 does note that should anything be developed that would exceed the studied traffic count that would have to do another tia and implement the improvements shown under the tia so we still feel like that's that's been addressed i'm sorry mr de haven i think i would i answered that too i apologize beyond that the gentleman was asking about where there is no berm that proffer does also note that where there is no berm they would preserve existing vegetation for 75 feet or increase building setback to 200 feet as as depicted on the on the gdp with that unless you've got additional questions for me we're seeking a recommendation of the board of supervisors tonight my left any questions for mr bishop my right any questions for mr bishop questions yes mr kern uh mr bishop not to put you on the spot here but uh the northeast land use plan yes sir was this included was this area included in that when that was done and when was that when was the neelup completed and passed oh you can ask me the actual date approximately it's within the last it's within the last year yeah it was so since this yes since this was previously considered and in the neelup what was this land uh mixed use office and industrial that was just on okay yeah okay any other questions for mr bishop mr bishop thank you very much yes sir okay uh discussion among commissioners comments thoughts mr thomas i'll make a short comment i think this is a good use for this property uh yes it's next to a housing development there's uh the gas station on one side we have in the other side of 81 uh i think it's workable i think the developer will do a good job with it and i think it's the best use for that area farming in that area for this size is not practical anymore nobody wants to do it so i think i think there's no change from the last time i think we ought to have the same action as the last time we voted on it thank you sir this is mr bishop i'm going to ask mr bishop to speak on the next item and then we'll have a discussion on the next item and then we'll have a discussion on the next item and then we'll have a discussion on the next item okay thank you sir brannon i also think it's a good use for the property it's sitting right off of 81 so i'd rather see the tractor trailers coming in and out close to 81 than going into our neighborhoods and on our side streets um yes it was it's changed to tm from the northeast noah but before that it was the mixed use so it's been zoned this that's what the comprehensive plan has been for as long as i've lived in the county so it's not going really out of plan except okay it's more warehousing and i think it's a good thing we don't have a data center yet because we need to research that and get those ordinance in place before we encourage them thank you to my right any comments questions seeing none okay this is um in here we're in the stonewall mr chairman i'll need to recuse myself from this application thank you sir mr chairman while i recognize that traffic with this development in that area is a challenge as it is in a lot of places in the county i think this is probably a good use and fits with the overall comp plan and i'd like to make a motion that the planning commission forward to the board with a recommendation for approval rezoning at the ground now for ad gex he's usually behind the basemen we put um the main plan and ramp up in wondered so thank you very much and yeah addals follow us the까지 thank you so much all so with that i'm going to be at a summary on the general review and then we'll move on to the corporate law so i have two departments where this will be simply the building supply and then if you just want to look through around a bit to see приехolню by the go degree and so i be carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on September the 25th. Thank you, good sir. Thank you. Thank you to all who came out for this this evening. Yeah, you're welcome. Next item on our agenda is rezoning number 724 for William and Barbara Herdershell. Ms. Pellequin? Just going to wait a minute for people to sit up. So this proposal is to rezone five acres from the M1 Light Industrial Zoning District to the RA Rural Area Zoning District with no proffers. The property is located at 8183 Valley Pike in the Bat Creek Magisterial District. This map shows the property outlined in blue and I'll highlight that is a subject five acre property. The the the, blue color is the light industrial zoning and directly to the north of it this is part of the town of Middletown. So it's located just south of the town of Middletown in between Route 11 and I-81. Some history on the site, the property was rezoned from A2, the Agricultural General District, to M1, which at the time was called Industrial Limited in 1975, which was the first property that was rezoned. The property was a large residential area with no proffers. It was part of a larger rezoning that was eventually subdivided for this five acres. And the M1 Zoning District was later renamed Light Industrial. The structure has been well preserved. It's currently used as a residence and it was constructed in 1883. And it is listed on the Virginia Landmarks Register and on the National Register of Historic Places. The Comprehensive Plan designates this property and the surrounding area as a residential area. To remain rural and states that historic preservation is a preferred use for the county's rural areas. And therefore the proposed use is in conformance with the Comprehensive Plan. And following a public hearing this evening, staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the board on this proposed rezoning. That concludes the presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions and the applicant, Mrs. Barbara Houdershell, is present as well. And is able to answer any questions. Can you back up to the map real quick? Sure. For me. So everything in the blue, the property surrounded by the town of Middletown, is that what we're showing here? So it's tricky. The one that's outlined in yellow is the property in the county. This one is also blue, but it is now within the town of Middletown because they annexed it. So it just still has that blue color was just a carryover. So, yeah. Okay. Is there a building that crosses the property line there on the south? Or are there two buildings that back up to each other? Are you referring to here? Yes. Yeah. It does look like there is something that crosses the property line and the applicant would know more about why that's there and what kind of agreement was there for that. Okay. For that. Okay. Great. Any questions for Ms. Pelican? To my left. So what does this do to the property to the south is already M1, and it's going to change what they can do with the property? The property to the south is currently zoned M1, and it will continue to be zoned M1. Right now. Right now, there is, as you can see, a large, you know, facility, and there's industrial uses being carried on on the property. So there will be no changes to their allowed uses and what they're allowed to do in the M1 district. With that said, the setbacks will not change. The setbacks are 25 feet from the side, and that's pretty much where they're built to. The only thing that would change would be the buffers that would be required because when you're, if they were to redevelop, the buffers are not going to be in place. So the buffers are something that depends on the zoning of the adjoining land. So right now, the adjoining land is zoned M1, so no buffers are required. If the zoning, if the adjoining land were to be rezoned to rural areas, then a buffer would be required. And that can look a number of different ways, and there's also a mechanism for the two landowners to kind of come to an agreement and share the buffer on both of their properties so that it effectively wouldn't change at all and, you know, notarize that and record it in the land records to where if a new site plan was going to be done for the industrial property, they would honor that. And so that's something that they can work out as a way to mitigate any impacts. Okay. Okay. Any other questions? Ms. Brannon? In reading, it looks like the concern is the Middletown. I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word. I'm not sure if that's the right word. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, the Middletown property is going to develop. Mm-hmm. But we have no say over their buffers, correct? I mean, that's... That is correct. The town of... It has nothing to do with us. The town of Middletown is going to be the ones handling that rezoning and special use permit, so they will be the ones that decide about the buffers on that property to the north. And do you know if the applicant has talked to Middletown? Or has talked to who's looking at developing it to work out something? I'm not sure. Okay. I would think the applicant would be able to better address that question. To my right. Comments, questions? Mr. Akins? I think there was a letter in our packet regarding... From the applicant regarding that. And the... Because my concern is, is that if there's already something going on, even if it's not a public property, it's not a public property. I mean, I think there's already something going on. I think there's already something going on even though we have no preview in Middletown, that we could be making a decision tonight that... Or, excuse me, making a recommendation, excuse me, on something tonight that is already of something in play in another municipality that kind of feels wrong. And that the... I'm not really addressing or asking a question here. It's just, I guess, a reflection on my thoughts that the... I feel like we've got the cart before the horse here and that we should let Middletown figure out whatever they want to figure out and then address this. That's just, I guess, a statement. Okay. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay. Ms. Pelikman, thank you. Would the applicant like to speak? Yes. I would like to speak. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Ms. Hattershall. Good evening. Good to speak. Just for background... Do you want any of the slides? You can just use the... Okay. All right. Thanks, Kayla. Just for background, my husband and I purchased Monta Vista in 2006. We thought it would be a good retirement project for us, that we would like to bring it back to its former glory. And at the time, we had a big property in Loudoun County. So we were able to purchase the property with cash. And it never occurred to us to check the zoning on the property. We just assumed it was a residential zoning because it had been a residence for over 100 years. The issue came up about two years ago when we learned that piece of land that has now been incorporated into Middletown, that someone had bought that. And they were planning to put a tractor in traffic. And they were planning to put a tractor in trailer truck repair and sales facility. So I was concerned about buffers at that time. So I came to Frederick County and talked to the planning people to find out what the requirements would be because I had a residential property. And there was going to be a truck facility going beside me. And at that time, I learned that mine was not zoned residential. It was zoned M1. That was my bad. It never occurred to me to even think about zoning. It's not something I've ever been involved in. So anyway, I questioned how that could be. And no one seemed to understand how that could have happened. So I wrote a letter to all of the supervisors of Frederick County. And most of them got back with me and quoted the requirements for M1. It's M1 to M1. So I understood all of that. But my second question was, if that could not be resolved, I would at least like to know how this property could be zoned M1 and how it happened and how it could be fixed. And Mr. Charles DeHaven called me several times. Very nice gentleman. And he explained that many, many years ago, before 81 went in, that this was part of a 500-plus acre farm. An operating farm that the house I had purchased was, in fact, the main residence. The barn and all of the outbuildings were part of that farm. And when 81 went in, it separated the farm with the biggest part of it going on the other side of 81, a smaller part being on fronting Route 11. And that at some point after the 81 went in, some developers came in and had that agricultural land. And they were able to get it. And so, basically, that agricultural land rezoned to M1. And then I assume it was sold or plots were done out. The house was a part of that overall rezoning. Well, some concerned citizens that were very interested in preservation of historic properties and the fact that this was a very significant property that had been built right after the Civil War in Frederick County. They got together and got a group. determined to save the residence and the barn which had been built at the same time. Mr. DeHaven said that at that time the decision was made to carve out five acres and to maintain this five acre barn, the house, as a residence. And that is what happened. Unfortunately, nothing was ever done at that point to change the zoning back to residential, but over the years it just continued to be a residence such as that. So I had been working with the county and I decided that, I started thinking about it, and we recently did a trust. I have two daughters and my hope would be that we'll live forever, but if that we don't, that one of my daughters would be able to take the property over. And if that happened, the other one would have to buy the other one out. It would have to be an equal thing. Or if neither one wanted it, the property would be sold. And I found, and I should have known this because I've certainly had mortgages before, but my lawyer told me we would have a real problem, or the person who wanted to purchase it in the future would have a real problem if they wanted to maintain it as a residence if it was zoned M1, because you do not get residential loans on a property that is zoned M1. It would have to be zoned residential. And I know the property is worth more zoned M1 if you're looking at just the dollar and cents of it, but the house is just a prime example of an 1883 property. We have spent many years restoring, scraping woodwork. It is, we've brought all the systems up to code. It is a fabulous place to live. And my hope and thought is that we want to preserve this, not just for us or our family if they live there, but we want to preserve it for future generations because these are rare pieces of architecture. And the fact that it's already on the historic register gives it some significance. And it was the fourth house in the state of Virginia to be placed on the Virginia Register of Historic Property. So that is where I am coming from. I just feel very strongly that things like this need to be preserved. And it's... If it remains in its current status, I am sure that at some point in the future, some developer will certainly buy the property. They will just mow the whole thing down and put a concrete building on it because if you buy the property, you're not required to keep historic structures on it. But I would like to think that we can preserve this for the future. So that is why I'm going through the effort of trying to get this rezoned. And as for Middletown, I am working with Middletown. And they've been very cooperative. The people that are building the steel dog facility, we are working with Charlie Harbaugh. And I mean, I go to all their meetings. We are very aware of all of this. And I've already planted 100 trees on my side of the property. And they're going to be doing things if and when it goes through. And so that's not an issue from my standpoint anyway. It would not be affecting anything that Middletown is doing. And if on the other side of the property, I would certainly be willing to work with anybody on that one also. But that's where I'm coming from. So any questions? Any questions for the applicant to my right? To my left. Ms. Brannon? What I'm hearing is you want to preserve the building as a historic building. I want to preserve the whole property as a historic property. It's got a barn. It's got a stone house. It's got a stone oven very similar to what they had at Bell Grove. It's pretty significant. Well, my concern is making it RA will not preserve that house after you don't own it. No. The owner can decide. No. There are no guarantees that anything is preserved. What it does do is it would allow somebody who is also interested, and living in an old up-to-date house now, that they could get a mortgage and purchase the property and maintain it from that standpoint. But there are no guarantees on any historic properties or any properties that they won't change over time. Well, we do have a historic overlay that would guarantee that it stayed maintained. Why aren't you considering that? Well, we are looking at that. I've gone through the historic. I've looked through the so-called historic review group. And I am looking at easements and that type of thing. But that does not solve the issue of somebody being able to get a mortgage or enough money to purchase the place. That would not resolve that. It would not resolve the classification. And that's what worries me. And like I say, it wouldn't have occurred to me. My lawyer who did the trust mentioned that that is something that would create great difficulties. residents in the future. Any other questions? Thank you very much, ma'am. Sure, thank you. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak to this rezoning, this would be the time to do so. I ask you to limit your comments to three minutes and state your name and magisterial district. Good evening, sir. Good evening. My name is John Good, Gainesboro District. My nephew and I own the property just to the south of the applicant's property. It used to be the Stowe Woodward Company and then it became Xerium. We purchased it to do redevelopment work because Xerium closed and I think some of you know I work for Shockey and this is my project but we've redeveloped over three million square feet of buildings in the last 20 years and they're all occupied. We're still working on them. We've still working on them. We've still working on them. this one. I have three interim uses. I'm working right now on what I hope is a permanent use, and I want to protect my property rights. I find it interesting, and I appreciate Kayla Peliquin's confirmation of what I thought I heard. The comp plan said that the future use of this area was rural areas. I wonder if Thermo Fisher knows that. I wonder if the people who own the data center in the adjoining power plant know that. I didn't know that until I looked at the comp plan map, and I saw it largely included the areas that had been studied, and through everything else, or it appears, and again, Ms. Peliquin just confirmed it by what she presented here, future rural areas. Tens of millions of dollars of investment are there, not even counting my property. I question why the comp plan would show a future use turning back into rural in that area. Part of the problem is you have a zoning ordinance that sometimes references the comp plan, and where I get into a problem, if this rezoning is approved, without what appears to be allowed in a multi-party agreement to waive these additional requirements I don't currently face. The comp plan is article two, supplementary use regulations. There's one part of that, if you follow M1 across, and rural area gets down, you get to 400 feet. My frontage on Route 11, it gets larger as you go toward 81. I only have a little under 195 feet. So if it were to be 400 feet, I'd have nothing left to do on the front end of my property. There's no guarantee that anything will happen to the front end of that property. It's been almost 50 years it's been in use. Where the original building was put in place in the late 70s, I think actually probably occupied in 1980, added to multiple times for the same user. It could go another 50 years or 100 years and look just like it does today. But when you're in redevelopment work, you've got to use all the tools at your disposal to try to put a property back to work. A vacant property is not a good thing for a community. I think we're close to something. I don't want it to get messed up by losing property rights I have. An ALTA survey done by a professional surveyor before I bought the place shows me with a 25-foot setback. It was in an industrial-zoned park, and I think they did call it a park, and surrounded by roads and industrial-zoned property. Fine with me. I really don't have anything against the Howder shells. I understand what they're talking about. I think they could use deed restrictions to maybe help preserve the house for forever, but I think they can accomplish what they're talking about, and with a joint agreement, so I don't lose anything. I can continue to hopefully put my property back to work on a permanent basis, either as a landlord or as a sale. I think that's, I'm not asking for more. I'm just asking to stay where I am. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Would anyone else care to speak to this resolution? Going once, one twice, I will close the public hearing. Ms. Pellequin. Can you join us again, please? Yes. So, to clarify, right now, M1 against M1, no buffer is required. M1. Can you pull the map back up? Yes. Sorry. M1 land to be developed that is adjacent to RA land with a residence on it would require a buffer, and it would require a buffer. So, I'm going to go ahead and say, a category C buffer, and there are three different ways that that can be accomplished. One of the ways is a full screen buffer with 75 feet of inactive and 25 feet of active buffer. So, the 400 feet is really the largest option. 400 feet of a buffer, of a distance buffer, would include no screening of any kind, whereas this option for the full screen is just 75 feet. So, the full screen buffer is just 75 feet of inactive and then 25 feet of active. And active can include things like parking areas, trails, anything like that, just not a building. Okay. In it. Let me, let's walk around Ms. Hattershell's property here. Let's start on the south. If I understand today, while both properties are zoned M1, the only restriction that's on the property to the south is a 25-foot building line restriction, meaning their building can't come any closer than 25 feet. So, if you're a property that's a 25-foot building, you can't come any closer than 25 feet to the property line. Is that, is that correct? Correct. It's 75 feet in the front and then 25 feet on all of the other sides in M1. But if Ms. Hattershell's property is rezoned to RA, the rural area, then all of a sudden a zoning buffer is imposed on the property to the south because it's no longer has the same zoning. And Ms. Hattershell's property is going to be a primary residential use. So, you get into these zoning buffers. So, you've talked about which restrict how the property owner to the south can develop their property in the future. Is that correct? Correct. In the future. Because today, it would, since it's already established, it would be allowed to continue as such, no buffers needed. It's just if they wanted to replan and re-site plan the whole site, at that point, they would then need to design it in a manner to take the buffers into consideration. So, if they wanted to put an addition on the north end of their building, they could no longer... extend up to 25 feet from the property line. They're now limited to 100 feet from the property line with a zoning buffer should Ms. Hattershell's property be rezoned. Is that correct? That is correct if they wanted to expand. What about on the east side towards 81? What restrictions, if any, would be on the adjoining owner, which I believe you said was the, what do they call it, a truck spa? Yeah. Yeah. Middletown. That's in the town of Middletown, and that would be, I mean, they're currently working through applications to, they have to rezone it and get a special use permit in order to do that desired use for like a truck sales office. And honestly, I'm not sure what the impacts would be for that property because it crosses a jurisdictional line. Okay. I understand. But I think Mr. Aikens... Mr. Aikens raised an important point earlier, and that is, I don't see how we can take action on this knowing that it's going to have impacts on other properties without knowing what those impacts are going to be. That's a concern. So whether it's in Middletown, we know what the impact is in Frederick County. That's defined. What's not defined is Middletown. So I wanted to make sure I understood that, and I think I do understand that. Mr. Thomas? One other question. On the property of the south, instead of the buffers we currently have, what are the options that could be agreed to by the two property owners to change or reduce those buffers to mediate the impact on both of their properties? So there is a section in the ordinance that would allow for what's called a common shared buffer and screening easement, and that would be something that both property owners would agree to. And essentially, it could put most or all of the buffer requirements on the RA land, for example. So that would then have no effect on the M1 land. And it's just something that they would both have to agree to and work out. Maybe it's 50-50, whatever it is. But that is a provision, and that would be something that would be, like, notarized and recorded at the courthouse so that whenever someone wanted to do another site plan for that M1 piece of land, they would have to do it on the property, that they would be tied to that and not have to do the full buffer. Is that something we have to get prior to approving the rezoning? Yes. We probably need to get that figured out before we can move forward with this, I would assume. Can staff let the applicant know the different options available to her? I understand what she wants to do. I think it's admirable. I think we should do it. But then I don't think we should be impacting the neighbor, the good property, regardless of who owned it. I don't care who owns it. We shouldn't be impacting their property to benefit someone else. So I think if staff could work with the applicant and the neighbor to come up with something that's amenable to both. Now, I'm not quite as concerned about Middletown. I mean, they have their own problems that they could solve. This. You know, if we wait for them to decide what they want to do there, it's been there two years now and they still haven't decided. I don't think it's fair to the applicant to tell her we want her to wait another two or five years till they decide what they want to do with that property. But I think we need to understand the impacts on both sides and what the applicant can do to reduce the impacts on the neighbors. I really think we should rezone this at some point to RA, but maybe not today. Thank you, Mr. Thompson. We're in discussion. Hang on, don't go anywhere. I want to ask you a question. He had a concern saying it's RA future and the comprehensive plan is that little piece. That is true. This whole area that's shown in blue right now, that's the zoning that is the light industrial zoning. However, the long range land use that is in the. The That's just how our current comprehensive plan is. So when I'm looking at it through the lens of this application, it meets the comprehensive plan, which wants it to be rural. Well, to give commissioners a sneak preview, we're going to update the full comprehensive. Yeah. Next year. So get ready. That needs to be looked at. Okay. Any other questions, comments, discussion? Ms. Pelleper, thank you. I'm sorry. Go ahead, Roger. This is still discussion, right? Yes. I think we probably, I think the applicant needs some time to work out details. And I know this isn't the, it's not my district, but if. Well, let me hang on just a minute. Let me. Hey, Austin. Yes. If we table this, what's. We need, we need to know what Middletown's doing and need time for staff to communicate with them. How many, how long can we table this? What's. So I believe Mr. Fisher and I were talking that action needs to be taken by our bylaw, by the planning commission bylaw within 90 days. When does that clock start, sir? I would think it starts the first time it was up before you, which I. I don't. I actually know the first date. It's tonight. This is it. This would be tonight. First. First time. All right. So 90 days from today, then the actual. Okay. That seems excessive. Can we target the second meeting in October? Well, I. You think. The bylaws further call for a tabling to typically not exceed about 45 days. That hasn't necessarily been strictly followed just because of how dates fall and that sort of thing. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I would suggest the first or second meeting in October falls within your statement, Mr. Stokes. Mr. Chairman, just can I get an understanding? So why would we postpone it exactly? Because I can't say I 100% agree with the thought of asking the property owner to work with Mr. Good to figure out what Mr. Good is comfortable with when he's already zoned the right way. And we're really. We're really. putting a negative onus on Mr. Good and his property rights for what something the applicant desires. Is that what we're asking to do? There were two issues. First is, what are the impacts that are... In Middletown, I got that. Middletown. The second is, Mr. Good, we wanted to provide time for Mr. Good and Ms. Hattershell to work out an agreement that they can bring back with the rezoning package that minimizes the impact that's detrimental to Mr. Good's property as a result of this rezoning. Okay. Thank you. Ms. Brannon. Since the applicant said she's already putting buffer on her side on the Middletown, and Mr. Good, he's not responsible. He's not responsible for this debacle at all. So I don't think it should fall on him at all. So an option is all the buffer be on the RA side. Correct? Or I'm not comfortable with taking away his rights. I think that's what we're asking the staff to come up with. What are the options? We don't... I don't think any of us really understand... I'm just stating my view. I'm with Jason. Yeah, I don't think any of us really understand all the options tonight. And to vote on it one way, the other without understanding what the options are, I think we're not... We're doing both a disservice. Yeah, from my understanding, we're not trying to force him to do anything, but we're giving the applicant the opportunity to see if she can negotiate something with the adjacent property owner. I don't think we're putting the onus on anyone other than the applicant to see if she can work out an agreement. If she can't, then, you know... I think that's... Is that not where we are? Okay. Yes. Okay. Yep. Okay. And this is Back Creek. So I think we should make a motion to table the item for the applicant to work out the agreement between Mr. Good and herself. Okay. Can you modify your motion to table it until the first meeting in November? Absolutely. I would like to table it to the first meeting in November, please. Okay. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a second. Is there any further discussion? Okay. Ms. Brannon? No, we're voting. Discussion's over. But I thought staff said it had to be middle of October, the 45 days. It's 90 days. It's 90 days. He recommended 45. So we're ignoring that. Okay. To clarify, you have 90 days from today to act. The bylaws call for a typical tabling to be about 45 days, which would put you second meeting in October, first meeting in November, roughly. I'm not... So you're comfortable with either? Yeah, I'm comfortable with the timeline. Okay. Then yes. Okay. This is a motion to table until the first meeting in November. Ms. Brannon? Yes. Brumback, yes. McKay, yes. Sneddon, yes. Thomas, yes. Kozel, yes. Kern, yes. DeHaven, no. Akins, no. Trimplett, yes. Chair votes yes, and the motion carries. I'm just encouraging you to vote yes. I'm just encouraging you to vote yes. I'm just encouraging you to vote yes. I'm just encouraging you to vote yes. I'm just encouraging you to vote yes. I'm just encouraging you to vote yes. I'm just encouraging you to vote yes. I'm just encouraging you to vote yes. I'm just encouraging you to vote yes. to work with staff and come up with an agreement that does not negatively impact the neighbors. And thank you for your preservation efforts. Next item is rezoning 8-24 for DNM Container. Mr. Klein? Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is a rezoning request 08-24 for DNM Container, and this is a proposal to rezone approximately 13 acres from the RIA Rural Area Zoning District to the M1 Light Industrial District with proffers of $50,000 for the purposes of establishing a container service facility and the subject property is within the Opecan Magisterial District. This is your subject property outlined in blue and yellow it is south of Route 277 just to the west of Ridings Lane and to the south and west of the Singh Trucking rezoning which you all will be familiar with as you considered that earlier this year. This is your future long-range land use map which identifies these properties north and south of Route 277 and east or sorry in west of 522 as industrial and this is part of the southern Frederick area plan and an area of the county that's known as the Route 277 centers our triangle centers of economy. I won't read the full statement but essentially this area is planned for our targeted industrial or sorry our targeted business industries employees and the community. The zoning plan will include the employment generating industries properties with high quality site design mixing of different business office and industrial uses with high quality with high quality architecture and it is the intent of this area to promote a strong positive community image that is what your comprehensive plan says about these properties. The rezoning proposes a use that's typically associated with an industrial land use designation however staff would note that the rezoning does not include the other elements specified in the southern Frederick area plan. We made a went through some indications eighteen a County's other 8 7 7こと I made a pointielen to be clear that the the take it City that is the final section of what this would ultimately look like in the future the proper the proffer statement as included with the application provides for the right-of-way reservation for the future improvement in the widening of the roadway but does not include or identify the multi-use trail which has shown on our comprehensive plan in regards to the proffer statement the applicant has put forth a number of proffers to address their impacts in proffer one under transportation they've included that reservation for the future condition of Fairfax Pike they've included a requirement that for any m1 uses that go above their 85 daily trips at the time of site plan would require a TIA and they have included a provision to where they could use actual traffic counts from their site for traffic impact purposes the proffer statement again does not include the the full route 277 improvements including the multi-use trail section and the proffer seek to address transportation impacts of potential m1 uses that are allowed on the site but does not address all the other potential impacts of m1 uses on surrounding properties which are primarily residential and rural proffer 2 pertains to fire and rescue services and the owner is contributing a 10 cents per square foot contribution to fire and rescue services this is consistent with other rezonings that you all consider and proffer 3 pertains to land use they've included a development of the property within two phases and GDP conformance the front part of the property will develop as that container service facility as intended by the owner and the rear of the property would develop as a future industrial site with any of the allowed uses that are permitted in the m1 zoning district they intend to convert the existing residents on the property to a business use essentially an office for the container service facility and they plan to continue to use the existing well and drain field to serve the business use again staff would note that the proffer statement and the GDP do not address how and how the proposal will be informed of either on the existing well orLove glue site itself may order and use any replacements When required that property will be 하겠습니다 no sovereignty restitution until february 8th and 19th December the translation of existing construction The proposed improvement on the plant!* Continue to use the existing Well and drain field as the purposeICES and drain field to serve the business use again staff would note that surface Bo N 피rology uses M2.ftig 4 due to county To take a the property for the level The proffer statement and the GDP do not address how the proposal supports the county's targeted industries. The desired mix of uses are the high-quality architecture, site design, and vision for this area of the county. Again, staff would note that other recent applications in the vicinity have addressed this plan policy through the inclusion of screening elements along Route 277 to buffer industrial activities and requirements for building facade design elements for future buildings. This would be consistent with the sink trucking rezoning, which you all saw earlier this year. This is your generalized development plan included with the application. Again, for your orientation, this is Route 277. The application, the GDP proposes two phases. The first phase of the development, known as Phase 1, is intended for that D&M container service facility. They, again, would be utilizing the existing dwelling on the property, converting it to an office use for their business operations. The rear of the property, the balance of the acreage of the site, would be reserved. For a future use, M1 use, they don't specify what use that would be, so we would assume, for the purposes of identifying and evaluating impacts, that it could be any of our allowed M1 uses, and that is our most broad industrial zoning district, just for your references. So, again, this is a request to rezone 13 acres from the RRA to the M1 zoning district with proffers. The proffer statement does address transportation improvements, impacts to fire and rescue services, and certain land use restrictions. Again, staff would note that the proffer statement does not address the multi-use trail, impact- liberalー hates Estimate action approved I have a couple questions. At what point the 85 trips, who is responsible for tracking that or like when does that? So the trip generation is tied to site plan. So when they would be preparing a site plan, they would prepare a trip generation analysis, which are contained in all of our site plans. And then we would evaluate with the inclusion of VDOT staff if they are exceeding that 85 trips. If they were to exceed that 85 trips on the site or the phase two of the site, we require them to do a traffic impact analysis where they would fully evaluate the type of use that they were seeking on the property and what the impact would be to the transportation network, whether that be turn lanes or acceleration lanes or whatever it may be. There may be no improvements required, but they would have to do that TIA step at the time of site plan before they could go forward with the site plan administrator. Okay. And the adjoining properties are all RA, correct? So the buffer requirements would be kind of what we just heard. Kind of what you just heard. They would need to provide a minimum of a 100-foot buffer if they had a full screen. The surrounding properties to the east and west are rural residences. To the south is an agricultural piece of property. It's vacant. There is no residence on it. So that just gives you a little context of this area of the county. There are some industrial sites further to the east and west of the property and, again, directly across the state. The other one is the county of South Street. It's Sink Trucking. They are in the process of doing their development review and approval process for that trucking facility, which you all considered in the spring. And they haven't, the applicant hasn't, or they haven't proffered out any or prohibited any future M1 uses in the case that further down the road it's something else or gets another owner? It is not included in their current proffer statement. Mr. Frank is here this evening. I believe he has some additional comments on that, and I'll defer to him to explain. They're thought processes as it pertains to the allowed uses. Okay. Thank you. Any questions? One left. So what's the idea to break this up in two phases? Why would it not just all be one phase and the same with the same, you know, proffers? I'll let Mr. Frank speak to the specifics. I think phase one of the project is intended to be used by D&M Container. They have an immediate need to locate their facility on a piece of property. They obviously believe that they don't need the full use of the property for that. Okay. So I'm going to ask Mr. Frank to speak to the specifics. Okay. So they have an immediate need to locate their facility on a piece of property for that operation, and they would like to reserve the right on the second phase of the property to develop that at a later time where they have an end user, a particular business that would like to locate there. I think they can explain a little bit more about their thinking of the phasing, but that's what I understand it to be based on their impact analysis. Okay. I think I know the answer, but I'm going to ask it. They would have to submit a second site plan with the TIA if they use that second half. That is correct. Actually, both phases of the project would require a site plan, but if they do that second phase, depending on the use, depending on the trips generated, may trigger a TIA that would need to be completed prior to site plan approval. It really depends on the end user. I can't speculate on the uses, but given the conversations you all had about Fruit Hill this evening, you can see that certain uses generate more trips than others, and it may trigger the requirement or it may not trigger the requirement. Mr. Thomas. The TIA, I think it's the same thing. It's a different type of site plan. It's a different type of site plan. It's a different type of site plan. It's a different type of site plan. The buffer that would be required if this is rezoned to M1, is the residence that's already on the property far enough on the property to meet the buffer requirements? It is not, but given that it is an existing structure, we would allow it to continue as is. They would just not be allowed to expand that structure. They wouldn't be able to make it more nonconforming. We would just treat it as a nonconforming structure, and it's allowed to continue to operate as is. But they would still need to put the buffer in around it to accommodate the requirement. Okay. And this is not connected to sewer or water, so any expansion or even bringing somebody in the back there, they would have to, wouldn't there be a number of people that would be limited in that house? It would. They would, depending on, so for the first phase of the project, the house, they're limited by the occupancy load of the current cell, or sorry, septic systems on the property. And then, depending on the number of people that would be limited, they would have to put the buffer in the back of the house. If they were going to expand, put an additional use on there, put a use in the rear, they'd have to accommodate that with either their existing system or an expansion to their existing system. As you all are acutely aware in this area of the county, there is not water and sewer service around 277. It's really confined to Lake Frederick, and Frederick Water is making improvements in this area of the county, but there's nothing imminent to bring public utilities to this site or in front of this site where they could connect. So they're really, their only option is to utilize the system. Okay. And their only option is to utilize well and septic, and they will need to make any improvements necessary to accommodate their employee load on the system. Yeah, private septic systems in that area are not faring well, so to increase the load on that system with the 13 acres of M1 property without significant improvements or connection to the public facilities, you know, I think, I think, I think, I think, resigning at the M1 is a good thing, but there's just not enough. Certainly the Health Department and the Fire Marshal will weigh in on the private systems at the time of site plan, so they'll have to make any improvements that are required as part of that review and approval process. Thank you. I notice an absence of any discussion about hours of operation in the PROPHER system. That's correct. That's correct. in the proffers. My experience with dumpsters is they get banged around, they make a lot of noise, and there's a whole long line of them waiting at the landfill every morning when the landfill opens. Is the proximity of this business to residential use is going to be a problem from a noise standpoint, and has there been any discussion about hours of operation? As staff noted, while the transportation impacts of potential M1 uses, including the container service facility, have been addressed, the other impacts, noise, vibration, odor, hours of operation have not been addressed, and I'll let the applicant and their representative address or speak to the nature of their use and how it operates and what the potential impacts may be, and it is up for you all to decide if additional requirements should be requested. And what would be the most intense use from a traffic? From a traffic generation standpoint that could occur in an M1 zoning? Certainly warehouse distribution. Okay. Okay. Very good. Thank you, sir. I'm sorry. Sorry, real quick question. The 85 trips kind of threshold right there, is there any discussion on how much of that is just regular vehicles versus trucks and tractor trailers? Because I'm thinking the first thing I look at is 81 to 80. Okay. So I'm thinking the first thing I look at is 87 to 81, and I cringe when I think of 85 more trucks heading over at that intersection. I can't speak to this. I don't have the numbers and how the 85 trips breaks down, but given the nature of their business being a container service facility, I would assume that the majority of those trips are truck trips. They have a very small number of employees that are there for the office use. The rest of the trips are going to be coming and going of trucks delivering hauling containers, essentially. Again, Mr. Frank? I can speak to the specifics. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Mr. Frank? Good evening, sir. First one, so that would be the perfect one. Just leave that up there. Yes, sir. That one. Perfect. Thank you very much. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. My name is David Frank. I'm with Pannoni Associates. And I'm representing the applicant this evening. They are here, the owners of D&M Container. And I appreciate the opportunity to speak to you. This is a very unique rezoning application. So I will start with talking about the applicant's business. It's a successful business. It's been around for 20 years. They're a container service. And they currently have six employees, including the two owners over my left shoulder. They, again, they're a successful local business. And they have been looking for a place to call their own. And they believe they've found something that is very suitable. The property is well suited for what their use is. It is about 400 feet, a little over 400 feet. And has nice frontage on 277. It has good site distance. It is a very deep property. It is about 13 acres. And as you saw on the phasing with the GDP, which is a requirement of the zoning, it begins to address why this is a unique application. And in essence, this is a transitional use. It's been pretty clear from the discussion you guys are having. It's a discussion that we've had internally as we've prepared this application. And that is why you've seen the proffers that you have in front of you. And we're prepared to address some of these issues and add more to the proffers, clearly because there seem to be some conditions here that the commission, would like us to address. So what's interesting this evening too is in crafting the proffers for this, is really what is outlining why we think this rezoning will work. And why I keep referring to it repeatedly as a transitional use. It's comp plan. There's already, if you look to the south, you can already see there's M1 and M2 uses only one parcel away. There are definitely residential uses around. There's an existing residential house on the property. That's a residential house. And the previous application actually highlighted something interesting for when I was sitting here, because I had the privilege of coming after them. But it highlights how properties change over time. And the comp plan is a long-range vision. And this property is in an area where there are changes. And we believe strongly that this is an excellent use for this property in transition going from the residential to the residential. And we believe strongly that this is an excellent use for this property in transition going from the residential house that was there to the use that the owners would like to put on this property as they run their business over the next many years. And then eventually this will transition into something else. A lot of the very valid and qualitative aspects that go into comprehensive planning apply a little bit less when you have such restrictions that are going to be put into place. And I think that's a really important aspect of this. And I think that's a really important aspect of this. And I think that's a really important aspect of this. And I think that's a really important aspect of this. So how much of this money should be placed on this should this rezoning application be approved. Specifically we put a cap on the trips. We have six employees. They if they shoot for the moon and go up to ten they might get up to 85 trips. They've got an existing house that'll require to be upgraded. It can be coming up. It'll function as an office. And they understand that they'll have to upgrade the drain fields. all things that can be done but with a very low intense use with a low number of employees they have the space to operate or they have more than enough space to operate on the front of the property to continue running their business and and operate run their operation out of Frederick County which is one of their goals so so speaking directly I guess to the proffers the 85 trips they are minimal they're they're based on ITE and based on the type of use we crafted the proffers in a way where we were intending to limit the use there's only so much you can do with a drain field without public water and sewer there's only so much you can do with a certain number of trips it is it's become apparent that we need to add language to the proffers and we'd be more than willing to accept conditions from from this Commission specifying that we need to restrict certain certain land uses some are naturally restricted by not having water and sewer but it's become apparent that once it is zoned M1 without those restrictions it you know you could backdoor a future use 20 30 years down the road so that is something we'd be happy to consider again this is intended to be a transitional use for a local business to get some higher and better use out of this property in an area intended to transition into an industrial property there is some language also that talks about in the comp plan for high quality architecture again this is something that you would see in the next iteration of this property when it becomes when you start having larger structures when you have will have larger uses larger trips and a redevelopment if you will of the land use that you would be able to use in the future. I think I tried to cover as much as you could it's it's an interesting application because it is a low intense use it is a very appropriate location and we'd like to craft the proffers so that the applicant can run their business for a long time this can be a transitional use that isn't as intense for the immediate neighbors and hopefully it's a win win for the county the neighbors and the community. I'm here for any questions. Any questions? Mr. Frank. Yes. So we'll go back to the phasing. Like I said I just I mean I do agree you guys did a great job on the proffers here and I mean I think it is a transitional area but me personally I don't know if you can expand on that what the reason for the phasing is or why it's just not all kind of in the same group with the limitations. So so it's a transitional use. I think it's a transitional use. I think it's a transitional use. I think it's a transitional use. I think it's a transitional use. Essentially 85 trips in the grand scheme of things I mean if you had a fast food restaurant you'd have several thousand trips you know it's not a very high threshold and because of the use they have because of the style of you know of their business it's again it's a successful business but they just you know they spend most of their time on the road out in the community doing their work and then they come back you know they're there in the mornings they come back in the evenings so they don't generate a lot of trips. They also have a piece of property. They also have a piece of property. They also have a piece of property. They also have a piece of property. So it's a great location. Again it's transitional so in the interest of highest and best use if there were let's say a small landscape contractor somebody else that also had a minimal number of trips there's a large area in the back that could potentially be used as you know another small business just like them that could end up in the back. And that's an opportunity to continue to use the property and it comes with all the same considerations. And that's an opportunity to continue to use the property and it comes with all the same considerations. So it will require a site plan. It will require buffering at the time of the site plan. If there's going to be an office in another building back there there's obviously going to have to be another drain field. You know it this property has limitations for very intense M1 uses and we're we are very willing to work with the commission to be more specific on the restrictions so that yeah it's become again it's become apparent that the drain field and the trip counts alone might not satisfy the needs of the community. So it's a great opportunity to continue to use the property. And that's an opportunity to continue to use the property. In any case anything else Mr. 22 to 3 for faut this item. Thank you Mr. Are there any other questions us something tough issues for us to get rid of into the local area, Mr. Thomas? The trip restrictions and That are okay for today and the drainfield restrictions are okay for today but I'm looking 10 years from now. Once we rezone this to M1. 10 years from now. ability if somebody wants to come in and redevelop it as you say, since it's already zoned M1, if water and sewer is available they can connect to water and sewer and put a warehouse distribution center in there that would generate thousands of trips a day. So to be able to accommodate your client and to get the use that they want to do, would you be willing to restrict or proffer out other uses that are included in M1? Because M1 is pretty broad and ten years from now we might say yeah great we want anything that's in M1 on that site, but today that's not possible. But we don't know how soon that next phase could be. You know a year from now we could have water and sewer there. Well probably not, but it's possible. So in the interim would your client be willing to proffer out a lot of the high intensity uses? Keep in the ability to put a small business behind him, a landscape contractor, something like that, accommodate his business, but get rid of the high intensity uses? Absolutely, and that's been something that we've been speaking about, you know, literally in the last 24 hours. We've we've gone there, I've spoken with the owners, they're more than willing. And Commissioner Thomas, I think the better way to approach this is to specify allowed uses. In other words, we know what we're trying to do here. We all know if I'm speaking in terms of a transitional use, we should be able to put a list of uses together. Let's say if a utility substation wants to locate there, that's not going to generate any trip. We can put a very short list together of items that are appropriate in the context of what I've said. And I think by specifying the allowed uses, we're addressing your concern because everything else has to come in for a new rezoning. Right. Thank you. Any other comments or questions? No? Yes, sir. Mr. Akins. The only thing that I would say is that the, it's a, I understand our comp plan shows this is industrial and it is a sticky area because there's a lot of homes that are really close to this piece of land. And it's just not the greatest buffer area. And I guess if I lived there, I would want the applicant to consider putting in some sort of hours of restrictions of the, because I operate some businesses that when these, when the dumpsters come in, they're, Tim, to your point, they are very loud. And I wouldn't want to be woken up every morning to that. And so some sort of restriction on that I think is, would be reasonable. Thank you. Thank you. Good point. A point well taken. That is also something that we've spoken to, spoken internally about. And the applicant is willing to address hours, hours of operation. I know, you know, six in the morning to eight in the evening is more than enough time for them to take care of their business. And as, in terms of hours of operation. There's also one more point with respect to infrastructure I want to circle back on. Yeah. So, Mr. Klein correctly identified that the right of way specified in the proffers was wide enough for the roadway. We're also willing to increase, I spoke with Mr. Bishop as well, I think it's 52 and a half feet would be enough right of way to accommodate the 10 foot trail as well. So the applicant is willing to accommodate all the right of way necessary for 277 should that ever proceed in the future. Yeah. So, I'm going to make the pavement section, the cross section of the road that is close to 81 currently. Thanks. Other comments, questions? Mr. Steadman. Yes, sir. So, you know, in this application it says dumpster services. Does that include any kind of repair, paint, welding, cutting, anything like that? Any kind of activities? Basically back to the noise. I'm going to default to the owner. I guess if one of you wants to comment. Okay. I'm going to default to the owner. I guess if one of you could speak to. Yep. Yeah, come on up. Maybe also like just provide a brief description of what the operation looks like. You know. Yeah, that sounds good. I'm Becky Hedrick. Good evening, ma'am. How are you guys? So, we do have a subcontractor basically that comes in and does our welding, painting, repairs. He's not full time. He's part time. Hours vary. And then, you know, we have a contractor. We are not full time. And then, the other question was explain our business. Is that what you said? Well, customers call in and they ask to rent a dumpster for trash removal. We work with residential customers, commercial customers, industrial customers. There's really not a whole lot of traffic in and out of our yard each day because once the guys leave in their trucks for the day they usually take a dumpster with them and they kind of, we kind of plan their route so that they're not purposely coming back throughout the day because that's just not efficient. and so they're out and about during the day. Sometimes they have to come back to the yard but it's not every day. And then we do do some truck repairs, maintenance on trucks, but a lot of our repairs are done at a truck trucking company that we hire to do truck repairs. We don't do most of those ourselves but like oil changes and tire changes and just regular maintenance we will do. Are you are you fueling trucks that you're at this site? Will they be fueled here? Yes, we have a fuel tank that we use to fuel them with. So back to the repairs, I mean you would be fine for hours, limitation hours, just to respect the residents, neighboring residents? We would, yes. We would be very willing to do that. That sounds good, thank you. So these repairs, would they be done in a future shop? Oh yeah. Yeah. We are building a shop at some point where the goal is to have the repairs done inside of the shop. The painting will be done inside of the shop. We're going to have a welding and painting booth inside of the shop and then two bays for the truck maintenance. And one bay would be for painting and welding so it would be inside of a shop. And then the dumpsters that are there on site and being carted to whomever are normally clean or empty? Normally yes they are clean. We don't like to bring them back full. Sometimes we do have to bring back one full. Every once in a while it does happen but it's not very often. And if you do bring it back full the next day you're probably? The next morning that goes out with a truck. Yes ma'am. Ms. Brannon? I noticed that it doesn't account for other impacts like glare, noise, odor, vibrations and I know when I go to a hotel the dumpster really is a problem. It really stinks. And if you're telling me it could come back full like is there an odor problem that needs to be mitigated because I wouldn't want to live by that. Right. I mean I've personally never noticed an odor from them but they're not really. Well let's say a neighbor complains about it what would be your response if there were? I mean if we miss a landfill closing there's really not much we can do about it unfortunately. We can't just drop a container somewhere else. But I mean we really do try very hard not to miss a landfill closing but you can't really count. You don't know what traffic's gonna do. I mean we just try our best not to bring them back. We don't haul a lot of food trash. Mostly our trash is construction trash. We don't have a lot of food trash hardly at all that we haul honestly. Which is that's what would be stinking. And our drivers don't really like to haul food trash so I usually don't try to get those jobs because they're not fun. We don't haul compactors. Compactors are what gets really stinky. We don't haul those and those are what has the food trash a lot of those and we don't haul compactors. Last question. How many trucks do you have in your like your whole fleet? We have four. Four trucks. We're small. Okay thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Thank you. Anybody who'd like to speak to this rezoning this would be the time to do so. I ask you limit your comments to three minutes or less and state your name and magisterial district when you come forward. Would anyone like to speak? Yes sir. Good evening. Good evening everybody. My name is Ben Ridings. I own the property just to the north of the state of Michigan. I live in the north of the proposed rezoning. I've gotten to know the Hedrick's pretty well and D&M Container Service and I recommend moving forward with the rezoning. I think they'd be a good addition to the area. I think they run a well-operated business there and I think they should move forward. Thank you sir. Would anyone else like to speak? Anyone? Going once? Twice? I'll close the public hearing. Would you like to comment on this or so I? Well no I think we ought to move this forward but maybe not tonight. I think this would be this is a good business for the area. I think be a good addition but I think there's some details that Mr. Frank and the applicant needs to work out as far as allowable uses and hours of operation and we don't move forward with rezoning. Yes sir. So I think this is a good business for the area. I think we ought to move this forward. Thank you. And I would second that. I think it's a great use for that location. We're glad you've chosen Frederick County. What we need to do is make sure when we send it forward to the Board of Supervisors that it's easy to use. Thank you. Thank you. So thank you. It's so quaint The difficulty is there is an open question where it's hard to ask questions so it's good that they get responses that are during a immunized. Thank you. No problem. I'm taking this a short break. It's good thanks. Go ahead. Thank you again. Going where what are we going to talk about in we're going to talk about construction and the the side area? so they can review it and get it out to us. Do you need more than a day? No. I'm pretty confident that almost every issue you guys brought up is something that we've been toiling with from day one. So I think we can turn this around very quickly. I think we can probably turn it around faster than staff getting it into their queue and reviewing it and responding. So I'm confident that in the next two weeks we'll have something into staff's hands. I will coordinate with staff. I'm more than willing to address any other concerns from any of the commissioners that you might want to forward to staff for us to include for consideration. Okay. Thank you, sir. Mr. Klein or Mr. Bishop? Yes, sir. If we table this until the first meeting in October, does that provide staff adequate time? Yes, that does. But the second meeting of September might not. No. Because we don't have time to ask. Between the advertising requirements and just getting out the reports and doing the analysis and giving Mr. Frank his time, it gets really tight. Okay. All right. Very good. This is Opecan. So I suggest the motion to table this until the October 1st meeting to allow the applicant time for clarification, error, housekeeping on all the items that we talked about today, the additional right-of-way for the trail, we talked about the architectural design criteria, and hours of use. Okay. We have a motion. Is there a second? And we have a second. Is there any further discussion? I would just want to make sure that is there – I didn't see anything in there, and I'm sorry if I missed it, but anything about making sure that the containers are completely occluded from view from 277. Is that in there? That would be part of the buffer. Okay. The zoning buffer. That it's 100%. 100%, right. Yes. Okay. Blocked. Okay. And there's also the road frontage buffer as well. Okay. Yes. Just wanted to make sure. Thank you. Sure. Anything else? Mr. Triplett. Mr. Triplett, yes. Akins, yes. DeHaven, yes. Carnes, yes. Kozell, yes. Thomas, yes. Sneddon, yes. McKay, yes. Brumback, yes. Brennan, yes. Chair votes yes, and the motion carries. So we will look forward to seeing you at our first meeting in October. Thank you very much. Okay. Next item is also a public hearing. Conditional use permit number 4-24 Marlboro Springs LLC. Ms. Peloquin, welcome back. Thank you. All right. This conditional use permit application is for a special event facility. The 102-acre property is located at 1147 North Piper Road in the Bat Creek, Magisterial District and is zoned RA Rural Areas. This map shows the property outlined in blue. It's located in Star Tannery near in the southwestern portion of Frederick County near the line with Shenandoah County. The applicant proposes using an existing barn and the surrounding farm for a special event facility. The hours of operation they have proposed would be for Sundays through Thursdays. 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. and then Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays would end at 10 p.m. And then one hour after those times, which is when the music would be cut off, would be allowed for guests to exit the property for vendors to clean up and that kind of thing after the music is shut off. They have proposed no more than 250 guests per event, and they would like to add two pavilions to the property in the future. The proposed use meets the definition of a special event facility in the ordinance, and the ordinance also does include additional regulations for this use, and that will be addressed through the sketch plan process, and most notably, the most notable regulation would be that all parking spaces and travel ways would have to be graveled. The proposed use is consistent with the comprehensive plan. The proposed use is consistent with the comprehensive plan. The proposed use is consistent with the comprehensive plan. The proposed use is consistent with the comprehensive plan. The proposed use is consistent with the comprehensive plan, which designates the area to remain rural in nature, and it supports historic preservation, tourism, and local businesses. Should the Planning Commission find this use to be appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions for the CUP. One, all review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. Number two is about the hours. Events shall begin no earlier than 8 a.m. on any day. Outdoor music. music shall end by 9 p.m. Sundays through Thursdays and end by 10 p.m. on Fridays, Saturdays, and holidays. One hour after the music is turned off is allowed for cleanup and for guests and vendors to exit the property. Number three, no more than 250 guests on the property at any one time. Number four is an illustrative sketch plan addressing those additional regulations for this use must be submitted to the county and approved prior to establishment of the use. And finally, number five, any expansion or change of the use shall require a new conditional use permit. Following a public hearing tonight, staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors on this CUP. That concludes the presentation. I'm happy to answer questions and the applicant, Sam Smith, is here as well to address them. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, one question for you. The graveling 250 spaces is a significant change to the property. Is that are you going to gravel 250 spaces? I understand it was more like about 85. Oh, not two. It was one to three. Right. Because you're counting a couple people per car. Right. Yeah, I'm not even thrilled about that. I'll just be honest with you because it's going to change the nature of the property. property, right? I got to somehow do that. So it still looks like a farm and nice, not, not look like a parking lot. Yeah. That's my, that would be my biggest concern for you to meet this. Yeah. That's the challenge. You have to meet that, right? So it's probably going to be, you know, it won't be blue stone. Probably I'm going to have to go with like a river or a brown or something that doesn't stick out, you know, something like that. That's the best idea I've had. Okay. Any other questions? Ms. Brannon? Are you a commercial farmer? Like do you have where you can take the taxes? Yes. Currently right now. Yes. Yes. We have cattle on it. Yes. No. Yeah. I know you have cattle, but have you gone through and become a farm for tax purposes? Oh no. No. You may want to check into that. Yeah. And as far as restroom facilities, for these 250 potential people, is that porta potties or? That would be initially, that's the way we would handle it. And depending on the success of the event center, then we could construct bathrooms. We'd have to have a drain field to handle that and go through the health department. I mean, the house that's there currently has, I'm sure, bathrooms. It does. And it's used currently as an Airbnb. We have a permit for the Airbnb. Yeah. Okay. Anything else? How do you manage, um, sound with that many people? You probably have a PA system or some kind of system. Yeah. Most of the DJs bring that in, right? Because we really, all we're doing is providing a facility. We're not serving food. We're not doing, you know, we just have the facility. So they would bring in DJs and handle that. Yeah. And how do you control the volume of those folks that do come in? Got the little decibel tester that we can check. So you actually have one of those that you use? Okay. Because, because I didn't know what 70 decibels was. I mean, you have no idea. Yeah. Okay. Listening. So you, I need to figure out what it was and it's, yeah. Yeah. Very good. One more. Mr. Thomas. Is the sound system inside the barn or is it outside? Most of the time they set up, there's a patio outside the front of the barn. Most of the time they set up out there. Sometimes it's inside, but most of the time they sit out on the patio. Unless it's raining. Right. Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak to this rezoning, this would be the time to do so. I ask that you limit your comments to three minutes. Please state your name and magisterial district and this will be the time to do that. Good evening, ma'am. Oh, wait a minute. Okay. My name's Debbie Hetzel. I'm in Back Creek District. I'm a country girl, so I should have said Back Creek. Anyway, my property borders SAMS. And back a week or so ago, we had this anonymous mystery letter come in with all these little things, complaints, telling to turn it down, not agree with anything. Thing of it is, four years ago, all the immediate neighbors around SAM and Sean Grabber, we all got together down at the barn. We hashed out all the issues. We hashed out the noise. We hashed out the traffic. We hashed out the traffic. We hashed out the traffic. We hashed out if there was any drunk drivers. We did, I mean, you name it, we went over it. Everybody was fine and happy. We settled everything. But it got turned down anyway. I still think I was Mr. Grabber, but I'll behave myself. Anyway, I'm here to say, as one of SAM's actually, I was probably one of SAM's hardest critics. Because that farm down there used to be mine. And I was one of them. I was one of them. I was one of them. I was one of them. And I had to get it down until a nasty divorce. SAM ended up with it. I had to stall my cattle, which were like dogs. So, when SAM moved in, I'm like, I don't like this dude. And things come around, things change. I gave him a chance. SAM worked diligently with his little thing going around reading the sounds and doing what he could. I mean, he would ask questions about this and that, about the people in the area. He's tried very hard to fit in. He sat there and he spent a bundle of money redoing that house, redoing the barn. And it, I mean, it surpasses any dream I ever had for a property. It's a beautiful place. He wanted to have a venue so he could share it with people. They could enjoy it too. Also, as a small farmer, the added income a venue would bring into him would ensure that he would be able to keep the rest of the farm functioning as a farm. And not as a development being piled up with 20 or 30 houses in there. I'd much rather have a venue in there with a little bit of music, which I can barely hear at my house. And it's not bad as long as they're playing good music. But, kind of enjoy it. But it's not blasting. It's not loud. If I go inside and I shut my door, I don't hear it. No issues. So my suggestion is, you know, you can't stop change. You can't get away from change. But you can try to guide the type of change that you have to live next to. So I'm proposing that you all pass Sam. Let him have his CPU. And I can have my little peaceful look over the hill and everything looks great. And I don't have to see houses. Thank you. You all have a good day. Thank you, ma'am. Would anybody else like to address the Planning Commission on this matter? Yes, ma'am. Good evening. Good evening, Chairman and the Commission. Appreciate your time today. I reside on the northeastern boundary of... Can you state your name and magisterial district? Yes, sir. Back Creek District. I'm from the district of North Creek District, Louise Garrett. I reside at 929 North Piper. And I'm on the northeastern boundary of Sam's property. I believe that our driveways, his second driveway of where his... Where folks would enter for events, I don't think it's any more than 25 to 50 feet from my driveway. It parallels my driveway right at our boundary and border. I, too... I feel that the commissioners should approve this CUP. It should have been... It was approved by you four years ago, which... But as Ms. Heltzel said, when it went to the Board of Supervisors, it was problematic. The reason I feel that it should be approved by you is that it is tried and true, like Debbie said. There was that period in 2020. In the spring... Excuse me, the summer and the fall where there were events. Because at that time, you could have a festival permit. And he had a festival permit. And all the kinks got worked out at that time. There were some concerns. Yes, there was concerns that maybe it was a little too loud or we didn't like the woofer. And so Sam agreed to not have a woofer. When his DJs were playing and to bring it down to the 70 decimals. So... And I agree, too, that very selfishly, I would much rather have a wedding venue or an events venue where we can still have our peace and quiet and vision of a field and a farming rule area. We have to come up with other options for farmers to be able to do something to augment or supplement their income. Because we know that farming, you don't get rich farming. You're lucky to make it farming. So, again, as a member of the community and living right next to that property, I am absolutely confident and satisfied that Sam is a good neighbor. Thank you. I think that Sam is a good neighbor. He has listened to his community and his neighbors. And I'm very confident he will, he has shown that he can comply and has complied. And I'm satisfied and I respectfully ask you to pass this CUP that's presented before you. Thank you. Thank you very much, ma'am. Would anyone else care to speak? Yes, sir. Good evening, sir. Good evening. Pardon me, I'm going to have to read from my phone. I don't get before you guys very often. My name is Dave Prestapino. My wife and Backstreet District, or Back Creek District, we're up on Bushy Ridge Drive, which is bordering directly across the street from this proposed venue. Up the hill. So Mr. Brill is across the street and Fritz, and then we're on their neighbor. Our property borders theirs. So we've lived in Star Tannery for 28 years, my wife and I. We have a different view than what you've heard so far. We're here to state our opposition to the special event venue. We think it'd have an adverse effect on the town, and it definitely has an adverse effect on our family and the folks on our road. A few years back in 2000, four years ago in 2020, there was some events that were held. And my wife and I were in the kitchen. And we could repeat. We could repeat what was said. We could write it down. We could sing with the music. It was loud. And that was with the windows closed. Air conditioner on. So it was quite loud. And I'll explain why. So the barn, the patio, where these events happen is outdoors. They're in a valley. They're down on the road. We live up on Bushy Ridge Drive. It's about 100 feet in elevation above that. It's a whole ridge that runs across Pfeiffer Road. And it acts like a natural amphitheater. So if you go to a concert venue, the stage is down below, and all the seating rides up the hill. So that way everybody gets to hear it real nice and loud. So we're about 100 feet higher. And it was very, very loud. We came to the meeting four years ago. And I think the permit, when it got to supervisors, got turned down or whatever it was. It wasn't a problem. And now it's back up to being done again. We're not, it's not that we're opposed. I'm just learning of people's names today. So it's not like we're opposed to a business being on that property. I understand. I understand you need to, you know, make an income from your investments and whatnot. And I don't know if this is Sam's only business venture, if he's doing other things for work, and this is a side business. Not my business. If he wants to make money from his farm, good for him. But it shouldn't negatively affect other people. And my issue, our issue, is we get up at 4 o'clock in the morning. We commute. We have jobs. We go to bed at 8 o'clock. I'm passing by yawning in the back. I'm sorry if I bothered anybody. But this is late for us. We're normally asleep now. And having these events running on weekends until 10 o'clock at night and on holidays with the folks on our road, I mean, we all see each other on the road at 5 o'clock in the morning. That's not going to work for us. It's not that we're against Sam. It's not that we're against anybody making a living from their farm. This just isn't right. This just isn't the right business in the right place. This is a very rural place. Piper Road, I don't know if you guys drive it, Piper Road is a windy little road. You get a couple people and have some beers at a wedding and try to navigate that sucker back to Winchester, it's not pretty. There have been accidents on the road. I've rolled up on them. It's just not the right thing, not the right business in the right place. It's down in a valley. It's an amphitheater. It's late at night where people are trying to sleep. It's loud. And I don't know it's going to be limited to just weddings, you know, once in a while. This is a permit to do as many events as you want seven days a week, 365 a year at 250 per. That's a lot of change for Star Tannery. Star Tannery is tiny, real quiet little community and we're just not used to that. Who's it going to help in Star Tannery? How's it helping our town? I don't know anybody other than Sam that will benefit from it. So I went back and I looked up from when we moved in and we looked at the core values this board adopted. And one of it said we'll have a government concerned with long-range planning that protects our rural heritage. And the rural heritage, like if Sam's a farmer, I'm sure he's not sleeping until 10 in the morning. He's getting up early too. I get up early. That's kind of rural. We get up, we do things, we get things going before the sun comes up. And then your value number four was a government that looks to the future and implements plans to ensure the quality of life for future generations is preserved. And this is not doing anything to protect or improve my quality of life and the people on Bushy Ridge Drive. It's loud. It's loud. There was a Backstreet District before he was in, lived on Burl Road, which is over by the convenience center. And he could hear from his house. It was crazy loud. It's just I don't know that enough research was done to really look at. How that sound carries and amplifies against that whole ridge and how it's just banging loud. So we're against it. Just want you to know. And thank you for your time. Appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Would anyone else like to speak? Can I come back? Hold on. I got one. Go ahead. My name is Pete Pitcock, and I'm also in Backstreet District. Just want you all to know that the Vanduul. Vanduul. Vanduul is a ada. It's a memory of vegetative orchid. But that 비� penny all over the seeds continues to grow. So we were approached in Wor nouveau. Gente gemina aguiere, Ham rooted. I got a little bit present about lenazzo allena varobia and most of the plants in this neighbourhood, this power plant also has left its roots in the soil, So what I'm about to do. Are pulled down these trees. At these damami, life is being heard. Great idea for them. shower there. It would have been a beautiful place to have it but ended up not happening because of everything that was going on but it's a beautiful barn and it's a beautiful piece of property and everybody, the vast majority of people in Starr Tannery would rather have that go through then see it get subdivided and cut up into lots and other types of development. So he's trying to keep it a farm and operating it that way and we would like to see that. Thank you sir. Thank you. Anyone else care to speak? I think that's everyone in the room so far. Second bite at the apple ma'am. You have people sitting in here that live maybe a hundred feet from Sam's farm then you have someone that's on a bushy ridge that is probably at least two miles from the house. Really? I doubt that. Anyway, anyway. My doubt is how, I mean, we get up early too. They're not the only people that work but if you've got a housing development there with cars starting up, kids yelling, people squalling back and forwards, you've got traffic 24 hours a day, 365 days a week. It's not like you have traffic eight hours a day on a weekend or something. That's different. Sam doesn't sell beer and stuff. Nobody says anything about corners down there that's a bar. You know, I guess Sam's people are the only ones that want to get drunk and drive down Pfeiffer Road. You have another venue in Starr Tannery which plays loud music. I can hear it at my house but I don't complain. That's what he does. I mean, would you watch it? The thing is, would you harvest? It can choose to harvest and that's what it does if they use it. You know, getting lost with pickles on TVs and otherwise. Thank you, APPLAUSE and just talking to other people you know, I we're going to take a look at this PR pest of green camera, miscreants, longo-age Sw bilmiyorum people and I could watch different of the people. It's just a problem, classic ground and I could wait four hours to find cocks again. I'd think of myself as doing look like some university. That's just kind of the way we're living right now. house, so I don't live two miles away. I live about 400 yards as a crow flies. When the leaves are down, I can see the barn very clearly. I actually don't have a problem with it being an event venue. I have a problem with the noise, how it comes up the valley up to our house. I would not be opposed if it got approved if the speakers could get moved in the barn or in an enclosed area, not on the patio where the speakers and all the noise just expands out through the valley. That would be my only suggestion. That's it. Thank you, ma'am. All right, I think everybody in here has spoken now. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? Sorry. Seeing none, we'll close the public hearing. Planning Commissioners, discussion? Mr. Triplett, you got the look. Do you want to add something, sir? No. I understand both sides. Okay. Okay. Mr. Kearns? I know that every time one wedding comes in, there's a significant financial contribution and impact in the community. Local restaurants are used. We talk about this with industry and factories coming in. This isn't that. But there's still significant financial impact and direct support a lot of times to our local restaurants, to our local hotels, our local DJs, all of those folks. So they do support events like this do have a significant financial impact in our community. I agree, though. I agree. I think that the 10 o'clock feels a little bit late to me versus 9. It feels like pretty late to have amplified music at 10 o'clock at night, even if it is a weekend. That's the only thing about this thing that it's kind of nagging on me. Mr. Thomas? I think this is a good use. Anything that goes in is going to change the area. But as Mr. Kearns said. I think this is a benefit to the county, benefit to other local businesses. And I think it provides a service. I mean, realistically, I'm sure he would love to, but he's not going to have 365 weddings there. You know, if he has five or 10 a year, I'd be surprised. I mean, it's a nice venue, but you're not going to go out there and certainly in December, January, February and March in the summer, it's going to be hotter and blazes sometimes. So, you know, we're probably looking at. I'm sure he'd like to have 20 events a year, but if he has 20 events a year, I'd be amazed. So I don't think this is going to be that big of an inconvenience. Yes, it's going to be a little change for some of the neighbors. But I, you know, if you don't like the music, maybe ask him to play 60s rock and roll music. I don't know, something different. But, you know, I think it's a benefit to the area and the county. Thank you, sir. Ms. Brannon. I'm strongly for this project. We want to keep the rural part. That side, we keep saying we want to keep it rural. We want the farms. Well, farming is getting expensive. Fuel is expensive. Feed is expensive. The grass drying up, having to buy it from other places. I know some people that bought some from Texas. I know some people that bought some from Texas. And had to have it trucked in one year. So I think we need and we have encouraged farmers to have agri-farm tourism type things. He wants to keep it a farm. I hope he gets his commercial farming so that it's a little less restrictive on building things. And maybe he can keep it more looking rural like he wants. Then the county have residents. The county have regulations to make it look like this big center that he doesn't want. He wants a farm. He has cattle actively. We should encourage it to stay a farm. And that means he needs a little additional income. It's his property. I want him to be able to keep it. So I'm all for it. Thank you. Ms. Moribeck. Yes. I would like to make a motion to approve the project. I move to approve Conditional Use Permit 0424 from Marlborough Springs LLC. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a second. Any further discussion? Mr. Chairman, I need to recuse myself from voting on this CUP. Thank you, Mr. McKay. Mr. Triplett, you look like you have been ready to go for about ten minutes, sir. Triplett, yes. Eakins, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kerns, yes. Kozo, yes. Thomas, yes. Sneddon, yes. Brumbach, yes. Brennan, yes. The Chair votes yes and the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on September 25th. Thank you guys for staying so late. It's past my bedtime too, by the way. Next item, Mr. Bishop, draft update of the 2024 Frederick County Primary Road Plan. And this is our last public hearing of the evening. Thank you. I don't think there is anything you've said, sir. I don't think it's anything you've said, sir. I don't think it's anything you've said, sir. Okay. Are we good? We're good? Yeah. All right. I guess this is not as popular of a topic. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. I don't think it's anything you've said, sir. Hopefully, you've got another one in you. It's okay, though. I trimmed it down to 15 slides earlier. I think that's enough. Okay. We are going to go to the next item. Mr. Chairman, the chair of the Board of Supervisors on September 25th. I have a question. I'm going to ask Mr. Chairman what you think about the proposed draft. I think this is an important issue. just to keep it interesting. As you've noted, this is the draft update of the 2024-2025, that is, Primary Road Improvement Plan. This is a public hearing item. Typically, this would come along with the Interstate and Secondary Plan. However, the committee wanted to do a little extra work on it since we are still in the midst of the Eastern Frederick County Transportation Study. We were trying to incorporate some of the findings of that. Key changes that you're going to see from the last update of the Primary Road Improvement Plan, particularly Route 37 prioritizations, have been changed up, as well as addition of some Route 50 improvements that are also smart-scale projects for us that are follow-ups to study work that we've done through two studies in corporation, one with VDOT and then the other one with the Office of Intermodal Plan Investment. The Route 50 STAR study and the Intermodal Plan Investment study and the Intermodal Plan Investment study are all part of the Route 50 pipeline study. To begin with, as far as the first key change, Route 37, as I've noted, we are in the midst of the, nearing the end, actually, of the Eastern Frederick County Transportation Study. Key components of that were to try and look at Route 37 as more independent segments, but also to figure out what is most needed, when it's most needed, and in what form it could be acceptable. There was actually some discussion about even removing some of the segments due to the long-term nature before some of them might be needed, according to the modeling that was done, because we did modeling out through 2050. However, that was ultimately not done, but we have broken up the priorities to where I got my hand slapped over for using the pointer and not the new toy, so I'm going to make sure I do this in a way that everybody will be happy. So, specifically, Route 37, between 11 and Route 7, and between Exit 310 and 522, continue to be priorities 1A and 1B. However, the remaining segments, so from 11 around, across 81 and around Stonewall Industrial Park, and from 7, all the way down to 522, those segments have been brought down the priority list primarily because of volumes, but also other issues, particularly with 6A and 6B as surrounding land uses or lack thereof, and lack thereof within the comprehensive plan. So those are now 6A, 6B, and 6C. Moving on from there, let's see, let's go ahead, and erase those. That brings us out to Route 50, where we have a number of improvements that are called for. The first one is the red dot you see on the right of the circled area. That is the interchange of Route 50 and Route 37. It has been identified for upgrading within the Route 50 STARS study. We have applied, actually, for smart scale funding for another diverging diamond interchange location, at that location. And then, skipping across to the blue dots, there are a number of improvements which are also part of smart scale applications. Those include upgrades to the intersections of Route 50 and Hayfield Road, as well as Back Mountain Road. Improvements to Route 50 itself in the vicinity of Stony Hill Road, which would include things like high friction pavement, as well as correction to some super elevation issues that are out there that have been leading to safety concerns. The only dot you see on there that's not part of a smart scale plan, a smart scale application at this time, would be the turn lanes at Dix Hollow Road, which we're hopeful that we can get those addressed in another way. But in terms of the update of the priorities, those are the additions and reshufflings that we have to report. So not a lot, but it also is reflective of the number of various transportation studies, frankly, just in the last year, year and a half, that we've been completing on our primary highways. And frankly, we've got a whole other slate for the upcoming year or so as well. So the Transportation Committee did review this draft at their June 24th meeting and has recommended approval. Depending on what the Commission chooses to do with it, we'll take your recommendation forward to the Board of Trustees. Thank you. And we'll be in touch with Supervisors at their next meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions for Mr. Bishop? Questions for Mr. Bishop? No questions? Actually. Oh, Mr. Akins. Yes, sir. Can you elaborate just a little bit on 6 . You said it was moved down the priority list. And you mentioned a roadblock that you were running into. No pun intended. I'll be here all night. The, can you elaborate a little bit more on that one? Specific to 6 . So that's the loop around Stonewall Industrial Park. It actually, with modeling through 2050, the regional model showed less traffic on it than on any other segment of Route 37. And that actually also happens to be probably the most expensive segment of Route 37 due to the interchange with 81. The significant improvements that would need to be made to ID1 through lanes to address the fact that there's inadequate spacing between the two lanes. And that's the reason why we're doing this. And the reason why we're doing this is because we're trying to get the intersection to be as close to the exit 317 and the location of that proposed interchange. So that combination of things led it to be pushed down in priority. Got it. We all know what that intersection is like right about Welltown. Yes. And how much of a stickler that is. And just was curious. I didn't know if 6 would help all that congestion or not. But it sounds like it wouldn't. Thank you. Thanks. All right. Any other questions? Mr. Kearns. Sorry. I know it's 930. But I got to bring this up because we just learned or I just learned at the Snowden Bridge, the recent Snowden Bridge rezoning. So I mean 1A right there at the top, we learned that that right of way goes right through Snowden Bridge, that corner of it. Is that is this taken into account or is that being addressed in here somewhere? It's taken. I'm not specifically with this document. Within the Eastern Frederick County transportation study, that's something that's noted as a bit of a challenge for that segment, but it doesn't change, pardon me, the demand for that segment. So that's why it continues to be a priority. It's still possible. Yeah, as you move forward into actual implementation, because in particular that segment, even for the next significant number of years, would be satisfactory built as a two-lane, not necessarily grade-separated segment. If you were to do things like reduce the 65, 70 mile an hour design speed down a little bit, it would give you a little more design flexibility in terms of curvature and things like that. So you could make some adjustments to try and make some of the right-of-way hits to perhaps that neighborhood or other areas less and less costly in turn to the county in terms of projects implementation, but those items are still further down the road. Okay. Had to ask. Thank you. Yes, sir. Any other questions, comments? Mr. DeHaven. Mr. Bishop, just to touch. Sorry. Just to touch on that 6C. If the modeling shows that it's unlikely to meet requirements until 2050, we know we have some construction issues. I believe it's drawn through a multimillion-dollar warehouse facility. It's unlikely to ever be built as it's drawn. What's the rationale in leaving it in the process? You know, we have a lot of resources, but we're not going to have a good plan on that. So what's the reason for that, and how do we get that to meet the requirements so that we can get the plan and not removing it so we can focus on some of these higher priorities and align our resources where they do us some good? I would note two things. One, as far down the priority list even on here as that is, it's not necessarily receiving investment at this time. The other is that the committee was a little uncomfortable going so far as to go ahead and pull it off. Full disclosure. When I did bring through the draft of this initiative, initially with the interstate and primary plan. I had actually done just that. I had removed that loop as well as the piece from seven down to 522. But given that the Eastern Frederick County Interstate Study has not necessarily finalized that, there's some concern about still the long, long-term potential effects of pulling that off of our plans and what that might do as land use actions came before us in terms of potentially weakening the county position and various items like that. The committee was just not comfortable going quite so far as pulling them all the way off. And that's where the direction came from to go ahead and at least for the time being, reduce the priority. Quick follow up. With them still being on the plan, and if we were to see some type of rezoning or development plan that is on that parcel that we're saying is very unlikely, we'd still be asking them to make some type of accommodation for them. So, we're not going to have a plan for that that we don't think would go through? Until such time as the board says it's time to pull that off the plan, I'm frankly obligated as a staff member to do so, yes. Okay, thank you. Any other comments, questions? Seeing none, thank you, Mr. Bishop. This is a public hearing. If anyone wants to speak to this matter, this would be the time to do so. Seeing there's nobody in the gallery to speak to this matter, I will assume that nobody wishes to speak. So, I will close the public hearing. Is there any further discussion among planning commissioners? If not, I'll be glad to entertain a motion to, sir, what do you need a motion for, Mr. Bishop? I have your staff updates for you. No, what should the motion be on your? Oh, I'm sorry, I'm seeking a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors, please, regarding adoption of this plan. So, a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Jumped down too quick. Seeing none, Ms. Brannon? Yes. Brannon, yes. Brombeck, yes. McKay, yes. Snettan, yes. Thomas, yes. Kozo, yes. Kern, yes. DeHaven, no. Haynes, yes. Kemp, yes. Kemp, yes. And Chair, by the way, yes, the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on September the 11th. Mr. Bishop, the last item we have here, is there anything in the current plans that we need to be aware of, sir? Yes, sir, just some brief updates. We do have a number of MDPs under review. Okay. We have a revision six of the Lake Frederick MDP, which is reshuffling some of their housing types and that sort of thing, as well as providing potential inter parcel connection to the west. Arbor Glen continues to be in development off of Paper Mill Road. That's actually a transfer development rights project that if you're traveling Paper Mill Road between 522 and the city, it is to the west of uh, Freedom Manor and those other developments that are right there at the roundabout. And finally, Washington Commons, which you may recall, off of Route 7, is also under development. I would note, I believe Mr. Liero already did note this, but just in case, the Firehouse LLC CUP that you all saw was approved by the Board on August 14th. And I would want to make a note that you may have observed a new staff report for the state. And I appreciate the feedback. format in your packet this time around that continues to be a work in progress we're very eager to receive any comments or feedback you have on that because we don't even we don't feel that's necessarily in a final form yet so if you have any feedback on likes dislikes that sort of thing suggestions we're very open to those if you just want to email those into into wyatt in particular okay thank you very much sir i did enjoy the new format i think it was much easier reading and get the reader's digest version and all the details if you'd like to have them as well so i appreciate the work on that i also want to commend the staff for those of you who were able to join us we've had two public meetings on the western frederick land use plan thus far one was out at the roundhill fire hall another one at apple pie ridge elementary school and then last night we had one over at winchester medical center for for some folks that wanted a third meeting so staff has done a tremendous job that will be coming to us the goal is for it to come to us this year and it's it's interesting interesting project the goal is to keep development from spilling over 37 in the western part of the county and and try to try to do more within within what we have so i think i think it's a lot of good work has been done a lot of surveys have been collected from the citizens in the county here and and the the survey can still be completed if somebody wishes to go to the website and and do that is my understanding so no the survey has been closed okay yeah it literally just closed in the last couple days but it's okay okay but if you haven't had a chance to look at the section of the website dealing with the western frederick land use plan i would encourage you to do so without further ado i'll be glad to entertain a motion for adjournment so moved and a second all in favor say aye aye have a very safe evening safe travels home thank you very much and we'll see you next time on the west frederick land use plan. thank you very much for your time
