Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-01-08
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=259
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you We're all here. Mike, is everyone here from your end? Yes. And the Commissioner of the Revenue is not going to make it today? She is not here, no. Okay. Who's representing her? It's all Derek's. All right. Welcome, Derek. I figured it was you, but I thought I would make sure. For the most part. So if we're ready to begin, this meeting and I believe is intended only to set the advertised tax rates on real property, people's homes, and personal property, their cars and other personal property. Is that the only thing on the agenda today? Cheryl? So my understanding of this meeting is so that we can move forward with advertising the real estate rate. Not necessarily set it, but advertise it so it determined what the reassessment percentage increase would be if we kept the rate. Does that make sense? Yes. And it continues to be true that whatever we advertise cannot go up, but that we have the right to lower it during the budget season. So it's not final, but it would tell the public the maximum those two tax rates could be. That's correct. And the tax rate would be set with the budget resolution. Okay. And there's no other tax rates that we're advertising today? Just the real estate for the reassessment. Okay. Just want to make it clear. We hadn't been able to stream these meetings in the past and sometimes the public's interested depending on how the direction we go. So it's nice to be able to do that. This is being streamed, I guess, this work session as usual? Yes. Okay. So those were just preliminary comments. How do we want to go through this? Did you want to present? Derek, is that, or Mike, how did we want to begin? I'm not sure if you wanted to give a brief overview of your memo that was sent out and... See if we have questions first. Yeah, I can do that. And I did hand you out a sheet. That's just a cheat sheet with some of the relevant information that is generally asked. There is no specific order in those numbers, but those are items that are usually asked after these meetings. So just to briefly go over the memo that Tonya and I sent out, the real estate gives you a breakdown on how many parcels we essentially have, the biannually, the every two years we do our reassessment, the estimated book for 2025, it gives you the total value there in $18.6 billion. And we essentially gave you the anticipated revenue from that $18.6 billion at $95 million. $95 million. $95 million. $95 million. $95 million. $95 million. $95 million. $95 million. $95 million. $95 million. $95 million. $95 million. $95 million. $95 million. I think your all's might have 96. There was a typo on there, and it should be 95 when you multiply that out. Personal property is the same way. Of course, we don't have any estimated values. Real estate, we create the values, we set those up, and they become effective January 1st. So we have those values and have at least a little bit of an estimate on what we could project. Personal property, we don't have those. We don't have those values, so we're kind of projecting off of April 2024 values. If you look at that, it's set at $2.1 billion. Our tax from the current book is what we're sitting at at $78.3 million, and our projected for fiscal year 26 is $84. That's the best we can come up with without the values in place. Of course, there's $1.5 million. That's the best we can come up with without the values in place until mid-February like we had talked about last time. Any questions? I have a few, but I'll let the board go first. Any questions about that memo? The budget increase of $1.1 million, so that's what you anticipate for personal property is additional over last year's revenue. Is that correct? That's the question of the $1.1 billion. That's the anticipated budgeted over last year. That's the increase. Yes. Okay. So following up on... Oh, go ahead, please. In regard to that question, I'm going back from last year. Could you maybe refresh us a little bit on what our projected revenue was and what the budgeted increase was, and also maybe just touch on how we are trending forward with this year based on those budget numbers? Could someone... So... So... So... I can start. I don't know if I'll be able to finish everything. Okay. So we budgeted in FY25 $82.9 million for personal property. If you look at the memo, it says that the current book is $78.3. That doesn't include supplements. The supplements are added. I think it'll take you closer to the $82.9, but I'm not sure it'll take you to the $82.9. I think it'll take you to the $82.9. I think it'll take you to the $82.9. And, Cheryl, does that include abatements and such? I mean, with these numbers as far as these numbers that were being presented? The $78 does not. That's just the original levy. The $82.9 should include supplements and abatements. Okay. Okay. I know that someone asked a question about the new construction. I think that's on the presentation. Yes. That was the 1.2. And that's for real taxes, real property. And I... We looked at the revenue for things like sales tax and meals tax in the last couple days. Everything is kind of catching up. We had, you know, four or five years ago, we had the COVID money, and then we kept our budgets constant. And then we had an influx of revenue from meals and sales tax, so we had big windfalls. And then we kept on increasing our sales tax and revenue. And then everything kind of, like, slowed down. So we budgeted an increase of probably $10 or $11. And now it's probably at five and six. So those two areas, which are usually recognized, are what people are really doing in our county. Chances are they won't meet projections for FY25. They'll be short somewhat. Not huge, but you won't have the windfall that you've had in the past. And so then that pushes FY26 out. But you can't bump those numbers up because those numbers are compared to FY25 when you talk about increases. And if you don't have it in FY25, you have to pull it back in FY26. Did that answer your question? Yes, but to the sales tax, because you had just sent out the December revenue numbers, and I did particularly look at sales tax, and it looked like we were ahead 3% for the first six months of this fiscal year. But typically, as you pointed out, we have trended much higher than that. We have. And so in that spreadsheet, you're looking at actuals to actuals. That spreadsheet doesn't reflect the budget amount. So when I looked at that spreadsheet and I tried to pull it back into the budget amount, it looks like if everything stays constant, that we'll be about $700,000 short in sales tax. Okay. Thank you for that update. I appreciate that. From projections. From projections, yes. So then, Mr. Chairman, let me just follow up on Judy's comment. So COVID's done. What's changing then on purchasing? Sales tax is related to purchasing. It was becoming lower than it was, you know, two or three years ago. What's the driver for that? I don't know if I can answer that. I can tell you three years ago, it was increasing 19. It was double digits, 19%. And that was actual to actual. Well, I think there were. There were some differences because, you know, meals tax and that sort of thing during COVID. I mean, a lot of these establishments were closed. So people were probably purchasing, I'm guessing, more goods on the outside as opposed to. And, you know, we looked at our meals tax and the driver behind that with COVID and so forth. And we also, a lot of those revenue streams, we were like, we were afraid to balance it. And so we didn't budget an increase because we were, you know, because we thought everything was going to stop. And so we didn't budget an increase. And then we got huge increases. And it took a couple of years for that to catch up. Does that make sense? On the memo, the last line is on personal property. Decreased assessment on value has occurred. Natural growth and supplemental values have offset. Can we talk a little about the decreased assessment? Well, we believe that. When we get our 2025 assessments that are going to show a decrease in value overall, you know, you're going to have your certain vehicles. It's going to go up or down or whatever. But overall, we feel the assessment is going to go down some. Our natural growth, hopefully, and supplemental values will offset that difference for the fiscal year 26. So is that a wind down from the high market value for a while after COVID for used vehicles, do you think? I would assume that. Because normally you'd expect them to go up, right? Any one vehicle can get a year older and go down. But there's always replaced by new purchases. Well, and I don't know whether, you know, people are replacing them as quickly as what they were, those type of things. So, like we said, we haven't seen any of the values. I know that Tanya had talked to multiple localities. And they felt similar that the personal property assessed values were going to go down. They just didn't know how much until they got their values from J.P. Power. It could come. From people not owning as much valuable, right? Like you said, if they're not buying new vehicles. In a downturn, I guess we usually see that. Or it could be to the overall valuations simply dropping. It seems like the latter. Yeah, the overall value to us when we're looking at, you know, that $2.1 billion, it might go down to, you know, $2 billion. I don't know. We just feel it's going to have that trend down a little bit. In just the values. So, any other questions? Yes, Mr. Chair. Question. Last month, we met on December the 11th. We said that the revenue neutral real property tax rate would be $0.4257. Has that changed any or is that still? It has went down like $0.424. $0.424. With all the updates and stuff. That were, like we said last time. Last time was just an estimation of our values and we're always changing those. It's down to like $0.424 right now. So, the revenue neutral, as you said last month, would have been about $78,440,000 for the real property tax. So, that's what we collected last year from 51 cents. That is based on the book. Yes. The question I have, and maybe I'm. Jumping ahead. Maybe we can't get this answer is. You know, how much, how much more additionally are we looking at on the spending side? Based upon those three new buildings. The two. One new high school building in this next FY. I know it doesn't kick in fully, but. Like, how much do we need? Yeah. Well, so there's. Got a new high school building and we've got two, two renovations that we're doing. So, there's two. So, there's money needed for those, right? For the architecture and engineering. Right. Or however far we get. But there's, of course, also increased costs everywhere. We have salaries that go up. Absolutely. We have gas, inflation, vehicles more expensive for the sheriff. And we had committed to some things, too. We'd committed to increasing fire and rescue by eight staff a year, I think. I've got notes somewhere of a couple other things that slip in my mind now that we had committed to. But that is their same question I have. Supervisor Ligero. And that is, you know, how much do we need in the coming year based. If I may interject, and that's why you're not establishing a tax rate. This first thing is what you establish is this is the maximum it can be. You can always lower it. So, whatever you determine now is the max you can be without starting the whole process over. You will establish a tax rate at a later date when you do the budget. And at that time, you will have more information on what the expenses are. I will tell you, we've started our meetings now at all the department heads going through the budget, putting it together. And we have, I guess, our first big meeting will be on the 24th. Mr. Bolhoffer, have you seen anything out of Richmond yet as to what this car tax, you know, I know they're talking about a car tax, doing away with that. What that might look like. I know it's probably very early. Obviously, they just started session. But have you seen anything that would give you some idea of what, if, what, and if that were to pass the locality would be faced with? From what I've read and seen, I think most people do not believe they'll be able to get rid of it. But if they do, as you know, our personal property, the car tax, is even higher than our real property tax. So, if indeed something were to happen, it was eliminated. But if they were to do it all together, that's a lot of revenues that would have to be made up for. And that would be very significant. I would hope if they took a big measure like that, they would not have it take effect until sometime in the future so localities could account for it or phase it in. Or even better, offset it with state funds at least to some degree. Do you remember what happened? You weren't here in the state. I was. But under Governor Gilmore, they tried to get rid of the personal property tax. And they ended up just discounting it by a large percentage. What, half? Something like that. What happened to localities back then? I'm familiar with that. With the discounting, I think when they made those changes, it wasn't significant at that time. I think, though, if you talk about if you're eliminating it or reducing it significantly, then you're talking about, especially for a community, because ours is actually even greater than real property. Then it gets to be significant. I think discounting in my memory was not significant. It was reimbursed. Right. By the state? By the state. And then as those numbers went up, then they decided it should be a block grant. And now they just give us like $12.7 or $12.9 million. And then that is applied to the tax bills. Are they still fully offsetting the discount? Yes. So that's where I'm thinking maybe there'll be a discount of some form if they do this. But if you remember, Mr. Chairman, that was meant to be phased out. And then when Governor Warner came in, he stopped the phasing out. So that's where you have the situation you have today. It would certainly be a massive impact on us and probably every other locality if it wasn't made up for. I guess I can only express my hope and confidence that they would. Phase it in or offset it in such a way that we would have time to adjust for it in the future. And we wouldn't have to worry about that for this budget cycle. Although I guess they could pass it later in the spring and throw us a curveball. They like to do that at the end of the year sometimes. In my opinion, I think the hue and cry would be so great if they passed it and didn't give local governments chances to. Correct for it that I don't think it would be able to do that if they were to try and do something. Aren't they talking about like a refund on your state taxes? Is that not where they're kind of leaning towards? No. So localities would still collect it, but then the state would make up. Based on your economic, based on your tax return, it would be like a scale of a refund on your state return. I thought that's what I read. So the state has a big. Surplus at the moment. A couple billion dollars, right? In their budget. I only thought of this this morning and didn't have time to look it up. If they had to offset all the personal property tax of all the localities, anybody have any idea what that number would be? It might be bigger than their surplus. I don't know what that number is. I would have to assume it could climb close to a billion dollars just looking at our amount. Right. So again, we're here to discuss what we want to advertise. The difficult part is I don't have a great grip on what our total expected spending would be if every department was held constant at staffing, but cut cost of living adjustments and a couple of things we committed to. I thought a couple of the others were, of course, we want to invest in modern enterprise software. I don't know whether we'd be purchasing that in FY26. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know whether we'd be purchasing that in FY26 or not. And we also approve the Master Deputy pay scales for the sheriff. I don't know how big a number that is, but those are new expenditures in addition to the firefighters. Can you think of anything else that's new this year? Yeah. I've looked at it. As a matter of fact, I think some of the larger expenses you will see, for instance, there was requested, I think, four traffic officers, well, two patrol officers, two traffic officers. The Master Deputy, I think going into the year was close to $150,000 to $180,000. That's a lot of money. And I think that's a lot of money. And I think that's a lot of money. And I think that's a lot of money. So, we have our 10-year plan for the fire department where you add eight firefighters every year. So, you would see eight firefighters in this year's budget. There's some parks and rec plans. And then the cost of living, just, you know, giving the employees raises and such. We worked very hard this year to have all the departments control cost and minimize any increases. There's also some things like the funds that we took out of the fire department. We have a lot of funds that we took out of the fire department. We did a fantastic job, including ten thousand dollars in the current budget of the Hyunقة đâu phi Twenty Five Minutes. We also did joint projects. That's fine. were possible and we were able to, again, get construction moving, then that would be other money that we could need to... You could take it out of capital, but at some point that capital fund is going to be eliminated. I bet. They had the IT meeting, a committee meeting, and in there, there's probably $750,000 to $800,000, and that's not any new software. That's just updating subscriptions on backups and off-site backups and just every day-to-day use-type softwares. That's right. We talked about that. It's just every day, the increase. Not only that, with the traffic, I mean, with transportation, Judy, we've got a lot of projects in the pipeline. If all of a sudden they did move forward, we're committed to quite a bit of money. Am I correct in that statement? One night we had this discussion about using the money out of the capital fund. My recollection was if all of those projects were approved, it would take that $30-some million for the county's contribution. We won't know whether those projects are approved, but we did endorse them, and when we submitted our applications, that was a part of our application. We would support a commitment to that, making our applications much more attractive. I'm not sure we should be relying on this capital fund when we've already made a commitment until we know what those applications bear. We know that our state legislators, all three, have been pushing hard for this area when it comes to transportation to try to get these projects moving forward, along with their, you know, the traffic board, our representatives. So I mean, we've been very fortunate. Some of the timeline's been pushed up, so we really need to be keeping our eye on the ball with that. Agreed. I have a question for both of you. Cheryl, I thought that money in the capital fund, sorry, money in the, I thought there was a separate pot of money for transportation that was put there so that certain projects could go forward. Is there not? That's correct. That's correct. But years ago, we talked about how we were going to move forward. We're going to move forward. But the question is, how do we fund that every year? And so I think we funded it like three and a half and a million and then maybe seven and then seven. And then the projects were kind of delayed, so then there was an availability to skip a year. So I had a conversation with Mr. Ballhoffer earlier, and I believe that you had told me that projects, road projects were funded, not totally funded, but money in the transportation fund was there to meet those. But if we had a new roads that that would be unfunded. So if you want to clarify. The smart scale project that have been approved, we have used the funding from previous years transportation to cover our 20% costs. So that money has been set aside. I think some of the smaller projects subsequent that weren't smart scale would be used in some of the transportation funds and I just look see if why it's here why it's not here. I know from what's in the Transportation Committee and some of the projects coming up you would need contributions. For instance, I think you're looking at future costs and transportation if the idea is to get 20% inter such for projects you're looking at the northern leg or the southern leg of 37 which they've determined are probably two of the most significant road projects. They're at least a hundred million dollars each so 20% if you were to try and do those and get a match that's 20 million dollars either one of those legs. There's also applications out there now that a resolution by this board was given that if we were fortunate enough to have those projects approved that we as a locality would be willing to put 20% towards those projects and we've not heard on those and probably won't hear until late spring early summer I'm guessing it could be even later in the game but so we don't know where we are on those. But on all the approved ones those funds are set aside. Smart scale applications that have been approved but we still have quite a few out there right now. We do. Is it possible to do a spreadsheet, a quick balance sheet on, so we've got what we spent what we projected to spend in FY25 and just write that down maybe adjust it slightly if we think we're running hot or cold on our spending. Or maybe we go back to our previous budget approach and then we'll decide what our budget is and then we'll make sure that we have an estimate for this year. And then put in wedges for some additional costs and see what number we get because now we have some estimates that we can work with on the revenue side even if you know we're just projecting on the assessed values of vehicles. I will tell you our intention was this year to put 7 million more into the transportation fund because it was our goal going forward to put 7 million a year into that fund and that's what we've been able to do. So we're going to be pushing it. That's a great point. And that's in the budget, that's what we were going to put in, $7 million for transportation. Let me just make a quick comment then. This year's budget is like $250 million. $7 million is less than 3%. So I have not yet asked Cheryl to go through and say, fine, where are we allocating money percentage-wise? But for this county, you have, you know, education is a big issue. Public safety is a big issue. And roads are a state issue. I understand that. But for the 20% that we need to go for smart scale, that's going to be a significant number. In addition, if we collectively were to say we're going to do 37, that's going to cost a lot of money. And if we decide not to do 37, then you're going to have another set of road issues. You know that, Judy, as well as I do. So either way, we have a road issue to address. I personally think when we get into this budget process going forward, you're going to want more than $7 million. Even if we're, let's say, 5%. Right? 5% of your total budget on roads, you're now talking about, you know, $12 million. So I'm not broken down numbers, but something for you all to think about. How much do you allocate for schools? Which I think right now I'm looking at 50%. What are you going to allocate for public safety, which is a core item? What are you going to allocate, you know, for roads to get people to move from point A to point B? Well, that goes into this mix. And for a road, we're also looking at fixing that one road with the elementary school and middle school with the traffic. Right? And that's a very expensive fix, which has not been budgeted. I don't remember the total cost, but it could run as high as, if I remember the ballpark, $15 million or such. That's the Gainesville. Yes. The Green Team. We have that one. And don't we also have the one over Sarando? Correct. The one at Sarando is. And the good news is on both of those, our legislators are working to get state matches. And we've got our fingers crossed, but it would still require a significant amount of money for the county to get those done. So when would that come due? Let's say the Frederick County Middle, Gainesville Elementary intersection. You said $15 million about for that project? I'm not sure why it's not here. When I looked the last time, it was close to $15 million. I remember. But when would they? So, you know, if it got approved at the earliest time, it's still not going to get going for a while. No, the goal is, I think, to put it in this year's state budget. So by July and such. That's one I think they're anxious to complete. Because of the safety issues, which we're all hoping that does come to fruition. We actually feel pretty good about those. But feeling pretty good doesn't mean you're going to get them. But they are both, I think, worthwhile projects that the state would consider. And then you also have the Shawnee Drive. That's another one that they're pushing for. Down there on Route 11. So, you know, you've got three or four projects here that could really pop up. That will make huge differences for this community. Immensely. For our area. I mean, that's, I mean, absolutely. When do you have to advertise the rates? March. To kind of come back to Josh's question. I think that the reason that we talked about the personal property tax revenue and sales tax revenue and meals tax revenue is to kind of say, there's not a lot of increases in revenue. And so your real estate tax is going to be your area that is going to provide revenue for whatever you do. Most likely. Unless you change other tax rates. You mean new revenue. The only one really increasing largely is real estate. That's assuming we keep the rate the same. It's going to be the revenue stream for your increases. Because it's not, you know, like we might have a little bit in interest, just a little bit because, you know, the interest rates are coming down a little bit. You're not going to really have a lot in sales tax and meals tax. I don't know about the state. You might have a little bit, but not a lot. Our, I think the jail went down, but juvenile detention went up. There's some, so it's. We have continued to have success in drawing new businesses that have broken ground. Now, if you've been onto social media, I'll put up a poco on you or your information. Sueets. Yes, I need your details. Eric, are there any other real estate tax organizations in New Orleans that have a lower rate than other there are Council City Council is going to have a larger tax orisa, maybe you have any comments on that? Orisa had the other any procedure that Ssec open.�SS. We get, I don't remember, all the meals tax or most of the meals tax. Yes, we get the meals tax. You have personal property tax, cars and boats and stuff like that. You have real estate tax. What other tax am I missing? You have business license. Okay, business licenses. Yeah, that's a couple million. Is that it? That's the large numbers. Okay. So that's what we have to work with. Or as Josh has said, what's the increase on businesses coming in and the additional revenues they provide either for business licenses, you know, equipment, you know, that. The business equipment does go on like personal property book. So that is shown in the increase for personal property. So you're getting your business equipment in on that. Your business equipment is including the personal property? Yes. On your books? Okay. So I guess several of us have talked. It's a little unfortunate we have to advertise by state law this early in the year before we have a credit and debit sheet in front of us. I've always wished we could start the budget process early in the year so that we could look. You know, even if you had just gotten your department budgets within a few weeks before, just so we could tally it up and see. Whether we're starting in the red, as it were. And I don't know unless we can do it now on the back of an envelope with some of these numbers. And I think that's why it's clear to make the clarification. You're not establishing a tax rate. What you establish at this point is what your maximum tax rate could be. I think that's why the state does it. You still have all the time to go through the process to establish what your tax rate is. Yes. Yes. And you're saying that this establishes your upper boundary. So, if you postponed it until a later date. So, basically, when we do our budgets, typically, we'll do a budget in April. We advertise in the beginning, in the middle of March. That's the 30-day notice. And then, you say, by this is the X dollars that we are anticipating. And you, the public, can come in and comment yes or no. If we do this advertised rate. So, we're going to have to wait until the next week or earlier than that. At least it pushes back to the middle of March. And I don't know if we can do that legally. I know that the code said that you have to have it at a separate time. It has to be separate. A separate time. And so, I know I'm playing with fine items. But if you just push it back even a week, it gives us the opportunity to do our homework prior to having to make a decision on even an upper rate. Because right now, nobody here knows. Well, I thought we had to do it today. Was it the deadline? Very soon. But I missed. I think that we tried to. I think that. We provided an option. It's a notice for what the reassessment means. So, it means that if you keep the rate at this amount, this is what percentage-wise of an increase it means to the residents of Frederick County. It has to be separate. A separate notification. It allows you to have a public hearing to hear however many people want to come and talk about what that means to them. It's hard to do a budget without knowing what the revenue is going to be. I mean, I understand what Mr. Blaine's saying, but it's very hard for us to sit up here and say, okay, I think Mike this year is going to present a budget. And so, without having a revenue stream, that's difficult. So, setting the rate is not setting what it's going to be. It's advertising. It's just advertising. And you cannot go up. You can go down. Correct? It's advertising what the current tax rate means if you don't roll it back. Right. So, it's advertising. It's advertising. That's all it's doing. Right. I mean, you know, what's, in my opinion, what's, we need to be looking out for the county and what we should be doing is you advertise what it currently is and then once we get our budget and we actually have our numbers, then we can adjust down. We can take it where it should be. But if we don't, I mean, we could be putting the county in jeopardy here. And I didn't want you to be in a situation that when Mike does the revenue or does the budget, that's not going to be a good thing. I mean, we can't. I mean, we can't. Right. So, I mean, the thing that I think that's going to be a real problem is that you've eliminated your revenue sources and you thought they were going to be in these other areas. Yeah, that's a trick. So, if we advertise the same rates for now, we're telling the public they may face the full cost of their assessment increases. What was that? 17, 18% on homes? It's about 20, 21%. I just calculated 20. Overall. Is this 21% based over last year, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's about 20% based on the 70 versus the 95. Yes. Yes. The revenue goes up by 21%, but some of that is new stock, right? Wow. You're right. It is not. So, we try to pull that out because we have to advertise based on what the reassessment itself brings. We even take out like our land use costs and our new construction costs, and it just shows you what the reassessment is bringing. Nothing new. That's kind of taken out. So, if we left it. Well, no, but I'm sorry, but there were homes built during the year last year, right? Which is the 1.2. And they're in your reassessment. They're in the 1.2. But they weren't in the projected budget the year prior because they hadn't been built yet. Correct. So, there is some new stock in there. I mean, if the answer is the tax bills people would receive at 51 cents per thousand, that's a new stock. That's a new stock. That's a new stock. That's a new stock. That's a new stock. That's a new stock. That's a new stock. That's a new stock. If the tax bill is 51 cents per thousand dollars, this value would be 21% higher, then that's the answer. I'm just wondering if that really is the answer. I think the percentage increase pulls that number out before it calculates the increase. And each individual person will obviously have their individual and would know exactly, I've received this. If this board doesn't do anything about this with the new assessments, this is what my tax would be this year. So, what have they received so far? People are getting an assessment. Right? They've gotten them in the mail. They're getting an assessed value. They have to receive their new assessed value for January 1st of 2025. But they haven't received an estimated tax amount. No. That's what this ad is telling them. Yes. So, what the ad tells you, it says the reassessment, when it was finished, the assessed value is increased by X amount. If they don't lower it, your property tax is going to increase by X amount. If they lower it, the rate to make it neutral is X amount. That's what the ad is. It's for information. If we stay, if we go with revenue neutral, that's where we want to go, 42.4. And the increase of the property taxes is going up 21%. Doesn't that leave us where we are pretty much at this point? We're flatlining. Yeah. You're saying if you went with the revenue neutral. To some degree. You're actually getting more, a little bit more money, but you're still flatlining. Yeah, but you get about 1.2 million more. Okay. From last year. If you drop the rate. Yes. If you went revenue neutral. In other words, you're equalizing the 21% over here and trying to. You're offsetting it. You're offsetting that. I did that once before. That's correct. But if we get no new revenue, that's our main new revenue stream then. Your real property taxes will be your revenue stream. Yes. Then it seems to me we're going to have a real problem finding the things that we have. Your choice is to start there and make it work or to set it high and see if you can cut it down. So you're working one way or the other. One way or the other. That's right. The difference between. I kind of like the revenue neutral. Yeah. If you go with the revenue neutral, you can't go higher. I understand. I learned that lesson a long time ago. So then how do you make it work if we have new staff, new pay scales, new projects, roads, and the schools that were approved? It would be nice to tighten the belt but I just don't. It's called tightening the belt. If you don't have the money to spend, you don't have the money to spend. But I'm sure this board can figure it out. But those transportation projects are pretty high. So I think the transportation projects are pretty important too. I'm just saying what I meant. Yeah. Is there a limit to how much we can drop it once we advertise it? I don't think so. No. No. You'll adopt the rate. No. State statute says as long as you don't increase by 1%, you can. Yeah. You don't have to advertise it. Because this advertisement is basically saying what the increase would be if you didn't do anything. Then you can drop it. So I think that's the only thing that I can do. I think that's the only thing that I can do. Yeah. I think that's the only thing that I can do. I think that's the only thing that I can do. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's the only thing that I can do. Yeah. Yeah. So if you don't have the rate, then you can just say what the increase would be if you didn't do anything. Then you can drop it. The higher you advertise it, the more public participation you're going to get in the process. That's hugely true. The lower you have it, the less public participation. They'll participate. That's what I'm talking about. They'll participate. If you advertise it low, it'll just be later participation. Because at the end of the spring, you'll be cutting things. You'll be cutting the school board. Yes. Or other big items in the future. It's not just the school board. You'll have to cut it. Yeah. It's not just the school board. It's the school board. county budget you'll have to or potentially you'll have to. I believe you'll hear, some of us, most of us know you'll hear about it from all the departments, you know, at that time if not earlier. So how long can we delay making this decision? Did I understand someone was talking we could delay this advertisement? I think that we were hoping to get an answer. We don't have a meeting next week. I guess we could delay it till next week if you want to have a special meeting. That would push the public hearing 30 days prior to the budget public hearing. It gives you 30 days to then talk about the budget. We discussed, I believe, doing it on the 22nd, which was two days before the, before having a special meeting next week. Next week. Have a special meeting next week on Wednesday. We don't have one scheduled for the 15th. My question to you is, if under normal circumstance we have a budget meeting, we'll make a final vote in the middle of April. That's typically what it is. So you have to have 30 days prior to that to advertise whatever that number is going to be, correct? Okay, so I followed you until we, at the first board meeting in April, we adopt the budget instead of tax rate. Okay, so, okay. So, so for 30 days. Now you're in March. Now you're in March. At that point in time, there is, that's where you have to do the advertisement 30 days out before we have the budget, right? So that, yes. So that's like middle of March. Okay, so now let me, let me just walk back through. If you did a advertised rate based upon the reassessment, does there have to be a 30-day timeframe there as well? Or could you just run that one week before? Or could you just run that one week before? Or could you just run that one week before? Okay. So if you did a advertised rate based upon the reassessment, does that mean that you have to do the advertisement 30 days out before, in other words, you have two advertisements, one advertisement in March that says fine, the current rate is X or whatever. And then you have your real rate one week later, which is the 30 days before our budget meeting or before our budget vote. The reassessment does not require 30 days, it requires seven. Seven. And it requires a date other than the date of your public hearing. So if that's a seven-day timeframe advertisement. So if that's a seven-day timeframe advertisement. So if that's a seven-day timeframe advertisement. If the, I'm just thinking out loud. If the advertisement were in the first meeting in March or the second meeting in March. What advertisement? Budget? Not the budget, no, not the budget. The, the budget, what we're talking about right now, the reassessment. Yes. If you did that, you could then come back a week later to do, hey, but the board has set a rate of X. realistic Simplifier, for it could go up by 76% on the если the rent is a maximum of the total, which is $0. 0% off. How am I going to get that conversation through there so the budget doesn't go up over a too big of a deal rate. Right. No bid, queUE says, so, here are your 18 monthaurus rates then you are paying $1 by weekly. Okay. That's kind of not that's probably reverse reflect of your how much that would have to be on the schedule. So if you got. Not really- Right. And I'm just trying to clarify. So that first rate is, this is the rate if rates are not changed. But in the same advertisement, you have in bold print. But the board will give a rate of what we expect to do in, you know, a week or two. Then the second one says, here's the advertised rate for the budget. And that's a real number that we've all, you know, worked through. And I'm not pushing you into a box. I'm just giving an alternative to that. That's all. You guys can all comment or not. I guess my bottom line is I'm worried about what our plans and commitments are. That the public understands that we've advertised and talked about. About ourselves. We advertise too low and constrain ourselves. We're going to be slashing some things in the spring. I very much appreciate not raising taxes. That's my goal as well. And I was all for that the year we commit revenue neutral. We don't have anywhere else. Our personal property tax rate is relatively high. We want to compare ourselves to other localities. So anything. The public would expect that rate to go down. Not certainly not. That's another maybe another reason why you're thinking like all of us in the back of our head. It's where our relatively low rate. The real property taxes would be the only place we could go. I'm trying to give you all the information for flexibility. Thank you. My humble opinion. I agree with what you just said, by the way, Miss chair, you don't want to constrain yourself. But. Yeah. I just think. Those 2 at the upper rate of 50 cents and 51. 50 cents would be roughly at 17 to 18% increase 51 cents. The. The current rate would be a 20 to 21% increase. I just don't think either 1 of those. Rate increases are really a feasible thing to ask the public so I wouldn't. I. On the 1 hand. I don't want to constrain myself. On the other hand, I wouldn't. I'm wondering what the effect of advertising 51 cents. Or 50 cents is when I don't really think I'm just 1 person, but I don't think a 17 or 17 to 21% increase is a feasible increase in 1 year to do on the on the taxpayer. And just to clear that that's a 2 year coverage. Right. So it would be like a 10 year. Or. 10% increase each year. Because we're doing a reassessment every 2 years. Right. And if I may, it's a board also has the opportunity to do Solomon. If you decide you can always take you don't have to be revenue neutral and you don't have to be what it's set. Now you can choose any number in between there or lower. So you're not. You're not restricted to just those 2 choices. So how many assessment cycles have property values gone up in the order of 20% it's been at least 3 cycles, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we've looked at all of these anybody is going to do an assessment on their own stages because these are collectively based on the bottom-up percentile. But on the 10 year scale, I mean, you're probably one of the people with the highest percentage, but on the 18 year strategy to start an assessment a little bit higher than the 1 or 2th 2. Yeah. harass you hard enough over the course of the course of 7 years. First year, you know, we're trying to get from. 12 plus 11. So singing into this budget, the 30 and 99,000 plus İw want expected. Let me say what I'm trying to say is. They've done artifacts on their 1 year as well. To makeIGa money rich. 14% somewhere along in there. We've only had one time that I've been here, the 20 years I've been here, that we actually decreased values. That was early on in, like, 2011. And if the board's not comfortable, as we said, we can always schedule a meeting next Wednesday at 4 and or the 22nd. So, or the 22nd. Yes, I believe, Ann, if I'm not mistaken, we have the 22nd no workshop. So, the 22nd, we have a budget work session on the 22nd. But it's nothing specific for it. I don't want to. It's my notebooks. I'm handing everybody their notebooks. I'm talking about them. It's very special. I'm sorry. We have next week. Pretty special. The notebook is where we have a lot of the new budget information from the departments, right? Yeah. The notebook. The notebook will show you detailed revenue, detailed expenditure. It will also, we have a spreadsheet showing the increases by department. We have a tab that talks about new positions, capital, all that. And so, that's going to be on the 22nd. And then, on the 24th, we have our budget meetings. So, if we did it next week, could we get those same numbers, but not the whole budget book? Just the summary, like, for each department? It's very roughly. How much are they requesting? It would be very difficult. There's a lot more to get it into and to distribute it. It would be very much incomplete. By the 22nd, it takes us that much time to get it into a usable format. It's a lot to turn around. We tried to give the departments a little bit longer. We made changes this year that everyone didn't read the instructions. So, then we had to revisit the changes and enforce some things. And so, we're not going to. We're going to make that less expensive. The budget and commission are productions that lost me in it, just time and stock. What's the function pretty much. That's not our�� Our target is to get it approvedétavi it approved during project meetings. So, I think, our long-term goal should be to have more of the requested budget numbers at hand before we have to make a decision on advertising tax rates. So, Actually Frederick County is ahead of any other jurisdiction I know, on their budgets. out. So, is there other reasons why you've done it in April versus later? Yeah, we do it in April so that if we, when we would increase the taxes, you would get that windfall in June because your first collection is in June. That June is in an old budget. It's in a fiscal year budget and your taxes are set on a calendar year. So, if you increase your tax rate, you would get a windfall in June. The other way that we could do it is to change what you have there on the law and just simply say that the county would do a tax rate or do an advertised rate after they've gone through the budget process and eliminate this reassessment. You'd have to change the law, correct? Yeah. If you did that, then all of us, let's say people, it may not work this year, but you can put it in for next year so that we're not in the same situation we're in today. Currently, this is the way we have to do it. I understand that's currently. I'm saying that if we don't like the current, which I don't, I think this is nuts to go and set rates, even advertised rates, until you have data. So that if you can go and change the law saying, after the committee's gone through a budget process, then you advertise rate. That's a lot more sense. If that means changing the law, then we go to the general assembly and say, here's why we need to change it and see what happens. So one week gives us time to think and try and figure some numbers out. What do we get? What can we get from staff? And from the commission of revenue that we don't have today. Either on the revenue or the, you know, a rough cut in spending. It's really to get much out. We're in the process right in the middle of everything, up until the 22nd. I don't think you're going to have any more information on revenues by that time and such. So if real estate is your revenue source and it increases what, say the full amount, we'll just go max, 16 million, 17 million. The schools come in at between 10, 20 million every year. And you just identified seven for transfer tax. It's going to exceed the 16. So then you have to talk about what, it's not really about what the requests are as much as what you're not going to fund. I'd like to be able to take a guess at how much it's going to exceed it. We all have maybe different areas where we'd be, willing to consider a cut. I can do a sheet of what we know. What we know. And then there's the new projects. Do we have an idea of how much the new master deputy will cost us? I guess there was an estimate when we approved it. We didn't know how many officers qualified to jump up into that. It's between 150 and 180 a year. We still don't know our VRS rate. That will come to us. At least sometime. And then the fire and rescue there, additional staff, we had a number. Is that still the right number? That's around a million. See, I have to put them all down literally on a spreadsheet. Yeah, we can give you. I can do a overview. Two columns and see where we're at at 51 and at other tax rates, talking about real property. Other, okay. As far as revenue, increase in revenues? from other rates is that I think you're trying to get an idea of what are your expenses going up okay I mean my guess is that this board won't increase the personal property tax rate so the real hinge as you suggested I'm agreeing with you is probably I can be one out of seven you all might disagree with me but the only flexible place seems to be the real property tax rate for generating revenue if we have to have it it's your most flexible yes yes and last year we had we had interest that we could jump on and we we had personal property I think of like four point six million dollars that we budget and so those were areas that you didn't have to use real estate dollars for you that aren't according to the memo and what's happening it doesn't appear that they're that those are dried right now and then I guess how much this new school projects are likely to need in County funding you know when they're going to draw the bonds and when payments come do is that going to hit us in 26 I think that when I looked at that debt service schedule it's the debt The debt service didn't really increase a lot, like maybe $200,000, but the $2.5 was funded from your capital. So you'll have to decide if that's going to continue or if that's going to be part. I will include it in my sheet, and then you can pull it out. And if you remember from last year's budget, when they were trying to adjust their salaries and make up for their compression and such, they had that several-year plan. And I will tell you, when you look at their budget this year, they'll probably request in the neighborhood between $5 million to $10 million in operating costs for the school site, and probably closer to the $10 million. That does not include the $19 million they put in there. It has no maintenance involved next. They had that outstanding of $19 million in maintenance that they were behind on. We put $5 million to that last year, so that still leaves a balance of $14 million. Right. Of course, I'm sure there's been new things added to the list. I'll add to those. No, I understand that, but I'm just saying that's from what they said the need was last year. Thank you. Seems like we've discussed it to death. Just based on silence, does the board want to delay and get more numbers as best we can until a certain date? And if so, next week or the week after, I guess we're looking at on Wednesdays. Makes no difference to me. If the rest of the board wants to delay, they can. I'd give Cheryl the two weeks to do what she needs to do. I mean, I think you're going to get better numbers if you wait two weeks. Sure. Give her the time. Yeah, I can agree with that because I need as much information as I can get. So that means we're going to look at this calendar again. So we're going to talk about it on the 22nd, which is a Wednesday. We're going to have it in a paper. Probably advertise it like on the 5th and hold a public hearing on the 12th, which that would be one month before the public hearing on the budget. Is that what we just did? So Cheryl, if you just do what you said, on the 12th we're going to have a public hearing on a, well, what was it,, Silent Party? We'll have серies 10. Are you telling me고요 real cyclones? And Vanessa, on the 14th? I mean, but you said 17. Right, so your consideration was 17, that's an amazing argument to give. That's close. And too slimey has had to be brings their results. How is he going to move forward with determining what funds are available? Does he just make assumptions and then he makes wrong assumptions? Over project. I have, if need be, I can always come in with assumptions with the budget at this amount. And these would be the recommended cuts or such type of department. It's what to remove if you go with the lower rates. I've done that many times in budgeting. You're putting the cart before the horse. I mean, if it were possible, if it were possible, I'd do this in March. I'd have an advertising. If you have seven days, you have an advertised rate. Get done with it. And then you can do it. You have a whole lot better set of data than that. And I know that's confusing from your perspective. But maybe something broad to the public. This is an advertised rate only. It is not the final rate. The budget will, the board will announce a rate in which they're going to vote on, you know, in April of X. I just don't like the constraints of the law. That's all. I think it becomes very confusing when you do it. I understand that, Cheryl. I'm just giving you my frustration. I know. I understand. So the states, again, were, if we met as late as the 22nd and we have our work session on the 24th. I'm sorry. So we have a meeting on the 22nd. We do have a meeting on the 22nd. That's when I give everybody their notebooks. And then that's when. That's when. That's when. That's when we were going to have a public hearing. But now we're just going to talk about the public hearing number, right? We're going to talk about what we're going to advertise on the 22nd instead of. On the 22nd, we're going to come up with the number. January? January 22nd. Is that where we're at? We're going to set the number we're going to advertise on January 22nd. Am I correct? That could be. Of course, the difficulty with that is that's the night you're getting the books with a lot of the information. So you will not have had. A lot of time. On the 24th, you will have had two days to go through them. So you could set them on the 24th with more information. I just ask them what days we're going to do it. Makes no difference to me. So then you said if we did. Delay in making a decision on the ad to us late as the 24th, then you would advertise it when? What were the dates after that? So now you're pushing it from the 22nd to the 24th. Is that what I heard? Keep going. That's an odd set. So that is a budget work session. Do we have to advertise differently? We're doing January 24th? January 24th, correct. It's an all-day meeting? Yes. Nine to five. Okay. So if you need to speak up, you need to speak up. Well, I'm just. I mean, prior years, we've always done it in January. They've always kind of set the rate and went. Because this is just an advertised. This is just an advertisement. Basically, this is telling everybody that this is what it could go to. Or what it could be at, but it can always go lower. I think Cheryl's right. You do get into confusion of, is this a public hearing on the reassessment versus. The tax rate. The tax rates. It does get a little confusing. And we've had those. We've had some people ask those questions before. I think separating them gives. You know, the taxpayer. There's a better time frame to actually come in and specifically talk about the reassessment and what it possibly could affect. Separating that out from the budget and those type of things. Like I said, that's just me being here 20 years and what they've previously done. So. Of course, it's up. It is up to you all. So what would the dates be that in your preferred approach? Picking setting today. Today. So. You know, we have there's things in motion with the budget and those type of things. If you would set something tonight, it helps create the budget helps generate possibly get into mind frames of where we are with our revenue. It just makes things a little bit easier for the staff. Not necessarily me. These two sitting next to me. Easier if it's done. My opinion. Thrown out, there isn't anything right now about how we gestellt. I'm gonna throw in the discussion about risk. Just just taking aみ Agree to enter any supervisor. padres going up. Although we don't know until we see. 51. Where they are now. Families. I know suggested that. That's already a. 21%. Increase. What people have to pay. Supervisor Wells talk about revenue neutral, but at that point, then we're stuck. So that would be 42 for It would seem we have no Right, it would be wonderful to tighten the belt but with the amount we've spent or committed to this year and wanting to do transportation I Don't see where that's feasible. Although it's dreamish. I would love to just to support that I Guess the other piece of the pie too is and I talked to other supervisors all of you sitting here the personal property tax rate the amount of people that have reached out to us regarding our personal property tax rate and is this an Opportunity for us to rebalance that personal property tax rate I mean, I don't know if that's something that We need to be thinking about and given the fact that the state has brought This up as trying to do away with the car tax Is this an opportunity for us maybe to? Look deeper at that rate So it would give us some flexibility Just saying Sorry, what gives us flexibility just by advertising the 51 cent And giving us an opportunity to maybe take a look at this personal property tax rate and what's going to? On in the General Assembly as far as Where that may end up? Because I would assume we wouldn't want to take that on all at one time. I'm hoping like you it would be phased but We don't know what Just something to think about Chairman what rate are you thinking? Well, I'd love to be revenue neutral. That's what I supported two years ago Question is we've signed up for a whole bunch of projects all of us have At one place or another You know, I'll agree on all of them But I mean I voted in favor of the master deputy pay scales for example, you know So there are things out there that we all feel like need to be fixed the roads we believed Needed to be fixed after more than a decade of previous boards not putting any money into roads, so I'd hate to see that Stop and I just don't know where Where we're at we advertise something and then discover two weeks later that a whole lot of things have to stop Rough I know the schools probably won't ratchet up our costs too much by it 26 it takes them time to finish the architecture and engineering and draw the bonds and projects and before the payments start kicking right But by the next year, you know, that'll really start to go up But there are these other things and there's inflation so And what if we have to hire no more Fire and rescue personnel that new staffing goes out the window, but we're building another fire station Yes, and we put aside money to buy equipment. Do we call that back if equipment isn't going to be used or There could be a lot of decisions like that. So I would like more time We can we can also work on it and send out some emails I don't think it has to be definitely established tonight to see what we can put together come up with a different timeframe So we should all reserve Next Wednesday and the 20 seconds 20 seconds already reserved on 20 seconds. Yes, and the 24th reserved So we should all reserve Because if we have enough data to go forward We might choose to go with the decision. Is that what we're talking about? If we meet next Wednesday, what are we going to talk about? Are you expecting something from me next Wednesday? Or am I trying to send you something on the 22nd? I'm going to ask you something I'm going to ask you something I'm going to ask you something I'm going to ask you something That's what I thought we were trying to give you two weeks. That's why we think it depends on what you want In order to provide more information. I think two weeks would be the minimum to get you more information to help make a decision What what we'll try to do is I'll try to email you something a little bit before the 22nd Like an overview maybe And then talk about it on the 22nd, but you at least have a chance to look at it Because I explained where we are in the process now We're meeting going forward meetings with department heads and different people people managing programs And we're doing our best to start removing costs cut down items So our goal is to knock that number down as we go through this process to give a much more reasonable budget The board is our goal this year. I can tell you just today was One seven hundred thousand dollar project. We recommend meeting up the partner had shipped and out a year There was another item we removed yesterday Two million dollars out of a capital plan of things. So that's what we're going through is looking through all the budget trying to Clean it up as much as possible before the board gets it If you do that, yeah, I Don't think this county needs to go just push stuff out to later years I mean we are the recipient of the fact that something's been pushed out and properties etc the last 20 years So, I mean if you're starting to push things out that are needed you want to tell us? This is something that's needed me push out because that's that's not Good for the county Well well And you will see all the things that were removed And our goal is not to push out things that are needed Our goal is to meet with department heads I've been doing a budget a long time and to help distinguish between wants and needs off in department heads confused to I mean I'm just saying Expenses going up because of our growth We've talked about impact needs before That's that's real factor So I said my goal is not to cut out needs. It's to separate the wants from the needs As you remember in all the past previous years, I sent you out that County administrator adjustments In fact, I appreciate this year. These are being done ahead of time instead of not after the fact to make it easier on you As long as we can see what's occurring, that's good everything you will see everything that was submitted I Said well, do we have a consensus? So we're having a meeting on the 22nd. I'm sending out stuff overview not necessary detail Review so you can kind of get a an understanding of the request right and Then I'm handing out the notebooks on the 22nd. So you have lots of detail So you can get ready for the 24th but On the 22nd you're going to talk about the reassessment rate 24 24 probably yes, I don't have to advertise that sect is that not a work session. It's it'll be part of the work session Yes So they can do that in a work session. Yes All right Okay Anything else said then that will be a public hearing for the 12 Oh, is that a board meeting? It should be a second It is this patrol role. Yes And it's listed as a budget work session prior to Frederick County Public Schools On the top we have a joint meeting at the school board And then after that you have a public hearing on the reassessment OKAY. OKAY. AND THEN YOU'LL HAVE FOUR MORE WORK SESSIONS. REALLY, YOU'LL HAVE THREE WORK SESSIONS THAT THE THIRD WORK SESSION WE HAVE TO BE PRETTY CLOSE TO WHAT WE'RE DOING. THE FOURTH ONE WE CAN FINE-TUNE IT AND SEND IT TO THE PAPER. AND THE NEXT ONE IT COULD BE IN THE PAPER ON THE 18th. I THINK YOU GUYS HAVE THIS. I'LL RESEND IT TOMORROW AFTER WE MAKE THE CHANGES. DOES THAT WORK? GREAT. THANK YOU. I HOPE THERE'S NO OTHER IDEAS FROM THE BOARD IN DEFENSE ADJOURNANCE? IT IS ADJOURNED. THANK YOU, CHAIR.
