Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2023-04-26
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=185
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'll go ahead and call the meeting to order if we could. Vice Chairman Blank. Done. Mr. Chairman, Deputy Chief Chester Locke passed away this past week after fighting a wildfire in the county. On behalf of the Board of Supervisors in Frederick County, we would like to express our deepest condolences to the family of Chester Locke. He has served this county well as a past chief and lifetime member of the Round Hill Fire and Rescue Station, as well as his service as Deputy Chief and Emergency Management Coordinator for the county. I consider it a privilege to have worked with him for the last seven years on fire and rescue. He was smart, thoughtful, gracious, selfless, and a true asset to the county. May the Lord give his family peace and grace as he works through this difficult time. I ask that you observe a moment of silence in remembrance of Chester Locke. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you, sir. We're very fortunate and appreciative to have Pastor Joel Flower with us this evening from Lighthouse Shenandoah to deliver our invocation. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Well, if you feel inclined, let's bow our heads in prayer, please. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace and mercy because all life is a gift from you. And so as we gather here, I pray, God, your blessing that you would just shine your favor on all of the decisions that have to be made here. I pray your blessing on the supervisors and their districts and for the county of Frederick that we live in, God. I pray that you would continue to shine your grace and your mercy on that. So, God, I just pray that every decision that is made here, every thing that's brought to this board, God, I pray that it would be brought and that the decisions that would be made would just bring about reconciliation, bring about the best for this county, and that there would be wisdom that only comes from you. And most of all, God, that we remember that we're your creation. And so, God, I thank you. We give you praise and we just ask for that blessing to rain down in the mighty name of Jesus. Amen. Amen. Thank you, sir. Vice Chairman Dunn. Vice President, please. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. All right. Adoption of the agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to adopt the agenda as presented. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. The agenda will be adopted as presented. There were citizen comments for subjects not of public hearing. Were there any sign-ups? No, sir. Thank you. Consent agenda. How would the board like to handle that one? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Affirm the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Any discussion? Hearing none. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Consent agenda will be adopted as presented. Board of Supervisors comments. Are there any? Hearing none. We'll move on. County Council. Any officials? Nothing. Appointments to boards, committees, commissions. There are two. Planning Commission Redbud. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to appoint Tim Stowe to the Planning Commission. Information is in our packet. Motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Mr. Chairman. Yes. I'm sorry. I just wanted to ask if I don't see Mr. Sturley. Is he available today for any questions? He's in the back. He's in the back. If he did you have questions? I did have a question or two. He's in the yellow shirt back there. Thank you, Tim. Good evening. You are indeed. So I just want to know, I looked at your resume. You clearly have expertise in this area. Have you been on the Planning Commission before? Or? Currently? No, I have not. Okay. So you've been involved as a citizen, I guess, advising the committee on one of the subcommittees, perhaps? I have been a member of one of the subcommittees, yes. Okay. Is that a voting member or? Okay. Great. Yeah, I had heard that you had been involved somehow, so I just wanted to clarify what that was. No, sir. I got this white hair different ways. And then, so I know you bring, I know you bring clients before the Board. And I don't know if you thought that was a conflict, or if you would need to recuse yourself as a Planning Commissioner in any cases? I know there are Planning Commissioners who recuse themselves in various cases that they're involved with. I won't say I'll never find myself in that situation, but Mr. Dunn was kind enough to wait until now and allow me to clear some of the things that I had been working on that were coming before the Planning Commission, and this body, so I wouldn't have to do that in abundance. So you don't have any on the schedule right now? There's one on the schedule that I will recuse myself from, yes. Okay, thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman, if I may? Yes, sir. I didn't pre-plan this, didn't know anything about it, but just that last question just tricked my memory. What, can I ask what organization or what case you may be bringing before the Board or the Planning Commission that you may have to recuse yourself regarding? There's a reasoning for Carmel. Carmel has been submitted to the Planning Department and is going through the review process now for which I performed a traffic study. Okay, thank you. Any others? Thank you, sir. All right, deferred the motion. And there was a second, I believe, Mr. Chairman. I know there was a second. I hear no discussion. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Will be appointed. Aye. Board of Building Code Appeals, a five-year term, ending 7-12-27, application of Lowell Taylor. Now, would the Board like to handle this? Chairman, I move that they accept the application of Lowell Taylor for the Board of Building Code Appeals. Heard the motion, is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. And a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Taylor will be appointed. That'll bring us to the Finance Committee, Supervisor Summer. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. The Finance Committee met on April the 19th at 8 a.m.. The first item on the agenda to Parks & Recreation Director request a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $135,000. This amount represents proffer funds to be used for the installation of pickleball courts at Sharando Park, and the Parks and Recreation Commission has approved this request. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? No. No. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Motion carries. Chair votes aye. Item number two, the Parks and Recreation Director requested general funds supplemental appropriation in the amount of $29,000. This amount represents proffer funds for the installation of a rectangular play field at Sharando Park. The Parks and Recreation Commission has approved this request. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Heard the motion. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. And a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number three, the Sheriff requested general funds supplemental appropriation in the amount of $10,466.09. This amount represents two insurance... Second. to be used for repairs and towards the purchase of a new vehicle. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. The fourth item on the agenda was the Sheriff request a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $700. This amount represents various donations to the department to be used for firing range, honor guard, and the impound lot. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Is there a motion or a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Gunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. The next item, the Sheriff request a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $302.42. This amount represents funds for recycling of scrap metal from the impound lot to be used at the impound lot. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. The EDA director requests an EDA fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $500. $5,000? $500. $500. I'm sorry. Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. This amount represents the scholarship received to support staff training. No local funds are required. The finance committee recommends approval and I would so move. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. The EDA director requests an EDA fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $5,000. This amount represents Clark County's contribution to the Shenandoah Valley Talent Solution Coalition. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. The EDA director requests an EDA fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $1,856. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent widget cup sponsorships received in the prior fiscal year. No local funds are required. The finance committee recommends approval and I would so move. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Hearing none. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. The EDA director requests an EDA fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $1,633.32. This amount represents reimbursement for the virtual table talk room rental. No local funds are required. The finance committee recommends approval and I would so move. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item 10J. The assistant planning director requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $2,030,143. This amount represents proffer and reserve transportation funds held in the general fund. The finance committee recommends approval and I would so move. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second Mr. Chairman. And a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Part B to that number, transportation funds supplemental appropriation in the amount of $4,125,859. I would make a motion for a supplemental appropriation. This amount represents the funds from the general fund above and the revenue from VDOT revenue sharing for the completion of Renaissance Drive. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Heard the motion. Is there a second? Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. The next item, the director of election requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $70,000. This amount represents funds needed to hold the June 2023 primary election. Local funds are required. The finance committee recommends approval and I would so move. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. The airport executive director requests a fiscal year 2024 airport capital fund appropriation for the next three years. The budget is $4,928,178. The amount of $4,928,178 represents the fiscal year 2024 airport capital budget less carry forwards. No local funds are required. The finance committee recommends approval and I would so move. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Mr. Chairman that concludes my report. Thank you. That will bring us to 13A. Discussion of the 2328 CIP. Thank you sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. You saw this item recently. It is your capital improvement plan that you see annually and an update to that. This is your 2023-2028 capital improvement plan. I've kind of pared down my presentation to just be the pertinent information for your consideration tonight, since you did already see the full-scale presentation on it last time when the item was tabled. So just as a reminder of how this process begins and ends, in October we send out notification to our departments to make them aware that they need to submit project requests back to planning and have a deadline of December to get that to us. Once those are all received, we consolidate those requests and we update your capital improvement plan using the format from the year before. In February, we review that plan with your Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee and your Planning Commission to ensure consistency with your comprehensive plan. They're in yellow in March and April of 2023. I haven't officially mentioned them before. If only you had better plans, I would like them to rain and stop. We will review your capital improvement plan for 2019 in the fall. mitigating thataneously and the plan into a charter plan will probably include a review of averaging your capital improvement plan, and might even you also accommodate a review of how our locally operated rating and reporting plan, which will also include theär turning injuries allowance money out of your new housing sector. There are about 23,000 federal money and total support. Trigger writing His presidency at fire board We then need to Allah with stolen state assets act programs. a're turning into land grilling. Model Oversight Committee who provides a recommendation to you and this is all targeted towards an ideal board adoption date of July. We update the Development Impact Model annually and we strive to do that in July of every year if possible. So not a terrible amount has changed between last year and this year. There were some reorganization of your parks projects. There's the addition of Jordan Springs Elementary as a school project for the needs that they have there and then Fire and Rescue went through a massive effort to incorporate a lot of the volunteer projects and update some of those. The rest of what you've seen for some of the existing projects represent inflationary cost increases and to that end I'm happy to answer any questions you all might have. As a reminder your Comments of Plans and Programs Committee did endorse it on February 13th as well as your Planning Commission on February 15th and then you all tabled this item on the 22nd. We are seeking action by the board to advertise a public hearing on the board. We are also looking at the Board of Directors meeting on May 24th if you are so accommodating. Happy to answer any questions. Questions for Mr. Pearson? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes sir. Supervisor Ludley. So I've gone through the report again. Your recent email to us had some cover information so I looked at the Virginia Code that you cited. I presume our plan falls under that and I went through it. I have a few questions. The first one is that the comprehensive plan should be for a period not to exceed the ensuing five years. Our plan does include some cost estimates out to ten years. So I didn't know if that was potentially an issue or whether we should segregate material. So I went through the plan and I thought well I won't have any objection. It's fine. It's more information in fact as long as the five years are covered. And they meet all the requirements in the following language in the code. And I had a little bit of trouble. It says that the plan should include, let me read from the code, the Commission's recommendations and estimates of cost of the facilities and lifecycle costs including any road improvement and any transportation improvement the locality chooses to include and the means of financing them. I'm skipping some language. As the basis of the capital budget for the locality. So there's some other language in there as well. I wanted to pull out from the document what the five year cost to the county since it has the language it will be the basis of the capital budget for the locality in five years. And I couldn't find those numbers. If I go through I just couldn't make them add up. So I wanted to see if we need to maybe reduce that. I'm going to revise to clarify. If we look through the tables there is a column for county contributions but they don't match with years one through five. I tried to take those numbers and subtract the beyond fiscal year 28 numbers but that didn't match either. I also tried summing years one through five. But again I don't get the county contributions number. So not to put you on the spot. I wish I had noticed this before. But it seems like to meet the code and to be a clear plan for us we should have a column that tells us what the county budget commitment would be if all these items were adopted. That's my first question. OK great. As it relates to your first question the county contributions column is intended to achieve that. It is very possible that there are some errors in the spreadsheet that could be corrected and I look forward to speaking with you after this meeting to see if we can get that right. I'm going to ask you to provide a summary of the column and then we'll move on to the next question. Thank you. I'm going to ask you to provide a summary of the column. I'm going to ask you to provide a summary of the column. I'm going to ask you to provide a summary of the column. I'm going to ask you to provide a summary of the column. OK. So I could give you examples now but to not belabor it in front of the board the question would be if there are some things that need to be changed or corrected do we need to hear this again at a later date or can we do that and still move toward public hearing if we're approving the version we have in front of us now? With leave from the chairman I would suggest if they're purely typographical in nature and that we've been talking about this a lot. If they're purely typographical in nature and that we've been talking about this a lot. I wouldn't think that the board needs to take specific action on that right now but staff could make that correction between now and the public hearing. I'm not sure they're typographical. There's cases where the number is added to be more than the county commitment, or less, and there's also a case where it's unclear, so there's a note on one of them that says says some of the cost is borne by other entities, not the county, but because the county contribution adds up to all six columns, the five years and then the beyond column, it ends up being unclear what the cost is for five years. In other words, that it could be any number of answers. You can't just subtract the beyond column and clearly determine how much the cost is for the county over five years. I can give you the example if you wanna look at it. I have several that I was puzzled over, but one of them is, let's see. I believe it's my note on parks and recreation, the first row for Abrams Creek Greenway Trail. The question is how much of the long range costs would be for our county contributions so that we can derive what our five year contribution would be. Yeah, in that instance, my understanding of the full scope of that project is the intent would be to apply for the Transportation Alternatives Program, which is an 80-20 matching grant. So the value that you see in the country, county contributions column of 819,000 should be 20% of the total project cost. Okay, so I had a few others and I'll pass them to you, but they can be answered or easily reconciled. Yeah, and my apologies that that wasn't abundantly clear in the spreadsheet. It's a lot of information to include in there, and sometimes it's encapsulated in the project specific request, but that was a tricky one, which is why you see the note next to it that you caught on to. Right, I saw that, but there are some other ones that don't seem to add up that I wanna, I wanna make sure we're meeting the purpose of the Virginia code that we're actually spelling out a five year plan and the costs associated. And then my second question is, in your cover you gave a figure for what the county commitment would be, I believe over five years. The figure was $433 million and change. Excluding debt service and the code, so there's two pieces to it. One of them is the code says that the means of financing shall be included in the costing. And I wasn't sure about that one. I thought maybe we're okay, because if we're giving the raw numbers of a cost, and we don't know how we're gonna finance it, then that would just adjust the figure at the time. But the second question that came up for me was more of a question, $433 million over five years. Is that a reasonable figure for a plan for us? Could the county possibly have $433 million of capital funds to enact all this? I think you're well aware I'm the wrong person to answer that, but I do believe that the capital improvements plan to some extent has not been viewed as a fiscally constrained document in that respect. So the expectation is not that the county will be funding all of those projects in years one through five. It's more of a capital planning document for the board to utilize during the budget process to pick which projects they might fund that are currently listed on the CIP. So if there's more in the plan than we could fund or will fund in five years, I mean, how is this plan used? How does this impact budgets and other work that we do? Is that really to departmental budgets specifically? How does that impact those, or how does that impact your roles? Impact proffer requirements and other? Yeah, the CIP does serve, and all the figures within it are input into your capital impacts model. Your development impacts model, sorry. And so when somebody does come with a new residential rezoning, these figures are part of the calculus for what we suggest they should pay in cash proffers. So if we have too few projects or too many in the plan, are we asking for too few or too many dollars in proffer amounts? Depending on the category that we're speaking of, the models designed to hedge against you over-inflating your CIP and driving your capital impacts model, the model that we're thinking about is how we would go about driving your proffer costs up, because it's, for example, parks is based on a level-of-service model, which is to say, you're trying to maintain an adequate level of service, so you can't put so many parks into your CIP that you exceed the existing level of service or raise it to an unreasonable level of service that just doesn't exist. It has those built into it for those considerations. And then for schools, the capacities figure into it. And if you're interested in that, I'd be happy to walk you through how the CIP ties into that. I am, but more generally, I see some costs in here that seem way too high for certain projects. And if we're accepting them to be refined later, that's one thing. But if we're driving proffers or budgeting based on figures, they really should be realistic before they go into the plan. That's my concern. And Virginia Code says the same thing. It shall be the basis of our planning, our capital planning over the next five years. Yeah, I think I've had this year probably some of the more thorough conversations with our county administrator about his intentions for this plan moving forward into our future years. And I think there is some desire for us to make modifications to both the process and the end results going into next year. I just have reservations, I guess I would say, about including things that are unlikely to be funded or that I don't believe are costed. Realistically. But thank you for answering my question. Absolutely. Other questions, anyone? Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Yes, sir. Discussion? Yes, sir. I'll put together a small presentation in looking at this plan a little bit. And I wanted to share it with the board tonight. I sent an email out to all of you just so that you could do your homework if you would so desire to do so. The first slide that you're going to see on the screen is the Code of Virginia as it pertains to our school systems as well as pertains to the square foot per student as there's been much discussion regarding the need for additional capacity for our high schools. So the state of Virginia, Commonwealth of Virginia, lays out how many square feet is required for instructional facilities for our schools. If you look here under the Code of Virginia, 671-370 under subtitle C. It says each school shall provide a safe and adequate instructional area space for administrative staff, pupil personnel services, library media services, physical education, and schools established after the effective dates of these regulations and classrooms added to the existing buildings shall provide at least 50 square feet of classroom or instructional area per student, including classroom fixtures. So 50 square feet is the Code of Virginia for instructional. Now, that does not include food service such as the lunches and breakfasts. That doesn't include all of those things. So I sat back and I really looked at what are the true space needs of our students as we are overcrowded at a high school and we have some trailers in place and things. So how do we meet those needs in a cost-effective manner? From there, I went to the Commonwealth of Virginia. The Department of Education has a website that shows schools that are under construction currently or schools that are under construction currently. And I went to the Department of Education and they said, you can go back and review the data. The data that is here, there's no present high schools being built in Virginia as of the 2022-23 year as we went to pull information. However, there is a middle school, multiple middle schools being built. And I went and looked at the square foot per pupil of the middle schools. As you'll see, there's a low of 125 foot at Chesterfield County per square foot per pupil and a high of 156 in Wythe County there at the bottom with an average of 138. I went back to look at some schools in Loudoun County to see the average square feet. And I went and looked at the square foot per pupil of the middle schools. And I went and looked at some schools in Loudoun County to see the average square feet per student that is required. And this is all-inclusive. This is not just instructional. This is also for the food service preparations. This is for all the all-encompassing needs of the student. Now, since we're constantly looking at Loudoun County, I wanted to use Loudoun County's numbers. The Loudoun County numbers that I saw were 151 square feet per student. So that was on the high end. But I thought 150 square foot per student is a fair number for all-encompassing student services. I then went to Persuade. Persuade is a similar type school in Virginia that was receiving either a renovation project or an expansion project. And I happened to find a school in Virginia that is very close to the Sherando High School project that is currently on the CIP. Broadway High School was also built in the 90s, just as Sherando High School was built. Broadway High School also had the same capacity or within 50 students of Sherando High School's capacity when it was built. So it is a very comparable. It is a very similar type of school. Built a couple years apart, similar type structure, and how it is laid out is very similar. It's eerily similar to Sherando High School. I found it interesting that the town of Broadway is very similar to the town of Stephen City, as they have both experienced rapid growth over the last 10 years. In looking at the numbers for that, I found it also very interesting that the Rockingham County Board of Supervisors has recently approved and was passed on to the school board in 2019. In addition to Broadway High School. You'll see that notated here on the Virginia Department of Education's website. You'll see that the contract was signed in February of 2023. That was less than 60 days ago. And what you see is it's an addition to the school. It's not a renovation. It is an actual addition, similar to what we had discussed and asked for here in Frederick County. The cost of their addition for 38,000 square feet is $12 million. I sat back and did a little bit of numbers there. It's a total cost of $332.51 per square foot, and that is new construction. That is not renovation of old construction. That is new construction. I sat back and wanted to give some numbers to make this realistic to see what we might be looking at. Now, before I go any further, I want to say this. Both Supervisor Ludwig and myself were privileged to walk through Sherando High School with Dr. Hummer and School Board Chairman Brandon Monk. And I must commend the school system. On the other hand, I want to say that we have a lot of work to do. I commend the level of maintenance that they have provided to Sherando High School. The school has been very well maintained, and I commend the school staff who have done that over the last 30 years. They have done a fantastic job at that. And I don't know if that's at the direction of the principal of that school or the maintenance staff or combination thereof, but the school has been well maintained, and kudos to them. Now, I'd like to walk into how I would like to see us meet the needs of our students moving forward. If you will recall, in 2017, I believe it was, this board allocated about $17 million to expand Millbrook High School for 400 students. The money was given to the school board and subsequently returned, as that was not the direction that the school board desired to go. They insisted upon a fourth high school. I went back to look at the numbers based upon the numbers I just showed you from Broadway High School, which is comparable to what is being requested this evening. Based upon the 150 square feet per student, which I just showed you how I routed that number, based upon the Broadway High School, cost for construction of a similar type school renovation addition of $332 per square foot, per student cost addition for the school is $49,876.50. You multiply the cost per student of $49,876.50 by 400 students, which is what the desire would be or was at the time when we wanted to expand Millbrook, and it gives us a cost to increase student capacity of $19,950,000, which is $6,000. This is based on a contract that was signed within the last 60 days. I understand that there's inflation, especially as it comes to building schools. I also understand there's going to have to be some renovations done to the kitchen and some other things. In speaking with some of the other schools across the state, some folks who have had an opportunity to chat with briefly, most of the numbers that I've heard have been about a 10% cost of the total expansion may be needed to renovate the kitchen and other items. Thank you. Thankfully, the Sharando High School kitchen was renovated within the last 10 years and has been taken care of immaculately. It looks wonderful. While there will be some additions needed there to accommodate the additional students, that could be done in that $2,992,500 range. The cost to replace the doors and windows, if you go and drive by the school presently, you will see that there are several doors and windows that are starting to rust. The caulking around the windows are starting to dry right. There's obvious. There's obvious needs for some of those for efficiencies to be replaced and updated. Toiletries, while they still work properly, obviously you don't want to commode sinks, other things to lager it into 60 years or 30 years old. So if we want to have the school maintained for another additional 30 years, you would want to replace those items. The floors look wonderfully. They've been buffed and waxed. They look very well. However, 30 years of students tripsing over them has provided some that are starting to split and crack. And there is a need to make sure that there's a safe, safe environment for our students. Those items, I am told from folks who are much more knowledgeable than I am, could be replaced for around $4 million. The reason I put $6 million in there as a plug or placeholder was I do understand that there will be some inflation between now and the time that this might actually occur. And so I believe that there is a need that there be some inflation built into this process to assure that the stool, the school gets the appropriate flooring and does not have to cut corners the same way with windows, doors and other items. It may be of need, which brings me to a total cost of $28,943,190 to renovate and expand Shirendo High School. Now, if you look on the capital improvement plan, there's $125,600,000 requested to renovate and I'm told now supposedly expand Shirendo High School. The last time that this was before us, I asked the school board representative what $125,600,000 got me, and I thought about playing the video. But I thought, no, I don't want to disrespect the gentleman. But I was told at that meeting that that got me a softball field practice facility and a bus turnaround spot. Those are the two things that $125,600,000 got me. I believe that this evening we need to take the fourth high school completely off the list. James Wood is being renovated as we speak and should add 150 to 200 student capacity to that school, and it will make us a very functional school. Hopefully for 30 years to come. I believe that we need to bump up on this list, Shirendo High School and also insert Millbrook High School and add 400 student capacity to both schools. If you added 400 student capacity to Millbrook and 400 student capacity to Shirendo, along with 150 to 200 student capacity that is being, I'm told is being added to James Wood, that would give us a thousand student additional capacity than what we have today. A fourth high school, if you will look into the numbers, is supposed to add 1,250 student capacity. If you look at the total numbers in their total, the thousand student capacity this would entail would meet our needs for at least the next 10 years, based upon the projections that I've seen from the schools, if not the next 15 years. Why in the world we would spend $125,600,000 to renovate Shirendo High School, which was a number simply drawn out of thin air, and I'll share how that number was acquired. I asked my school board representation, how that number was found. The number was acquired based upon the square footage, total square footage of the school and a complete renovation of the school. However, that's not truly what's needed. You see, the roof was recently replaced on that school within the last three years, I was told. The kitchen, well, it's been updated within the last 10 as well. There are a lot of items within the school that have been updated, and I commend the schools on doing so. It looks very good. You've done a good job. So let's meet the needs of our teachers, of our students and staff, and our taxpayers today. We can do so for about $28,943,000, and I showed you where I got the numbers. Last week there was a board member that said, we deal in numbers here on this board. I've showed you where these numbers came from. I've asked you folks to do your own homework, because I'd ask for each one of you to show me where I'm wrong in my math. And if I am wrong, share it with me so we can have open and honest discussion. Because I believe open and honest discussion will get us to a place where we can not only meet the needs of our students, but also meet the needs of our teachers and our staff, because we do need to meet the needs of our teachers and our staff, but it will also meet the needs of our taxpayers. Because if we continue down the road in which we are on, we will not be able to pay our bills, for many of us who have lived in this county, if we continue to spend as is requested in the capital improvement plan. This capital improvement plan, if you add up all the expenditures, is a total of $1,767,000,000. I don't see how we ever fund that. Instead of having a giant wish list, let's have a true wish list. Let's have a true wish list. Let's have a true wish list. Let's have a true needs list. Because you see, as was just shared here by Mr. Pearson, and I appreciate his honesty, we're either asking the folks who are coming in and building in this county to pay too much, or we're asking them to pay too little. And based upon what I'm seeing here, if we go down this road, we're asking them to pay an exorbitant amount of money for a bunch of wants that are not truly needs. So Mr. Chairman, I would ask, before we ever even consider moving forward this CIP to public hearing, that we make some amendments to that. And I'd like to make some amendments to that at some point here before we actually have a motion to forward this. I don't know if you desire to make those amendments at the present time, or if you desire to have input from others. Mr. Chairman, you tell me your desires. I don't think that it matters. I think that maybe get them in writing and let people review them might be helpful. Okay, so Mr. Chairman, would you like me to table this for one more meeting, or what would your desires be? That's fine. Okay. Whatever way you would prefer to approach it. I think we'll solve the issue. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So on that note, I would make a motion that we table taking up the capital improvement plan in any format until our next meeting. Second. And a second. Discussion? Anyone? Hearing none. Supervisor Dunn. Sorry, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Is there anything else in this, besides the schools, is there anything else in this that other people have comments on? Mr. Graber, I've been an advocate for having this discussion for a long time, but I don't know if there's anything else here that everybody else has some interest in before this is tabled. Mr. Chairman, I believe my motion to table precedes this discussion. Okay. It does. And a second. If you would desire to amend my motion, Supervisor Dunn. I just want to have a discussion, so go ahead. Well, we need a second. We have a second. I have a second. Thank you. Supervisor Lockridge had the second. Yes, I have it here. Okay. Discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd just like to say I agree with tabling until we look at these numbers. I'd like to compliment Supervisor Graber for having done all this research. I did tour the school. I do think it's in very good condition. And had a great discussion with the superintendent and the principal and the chairman of the board about the needs and the direction they'd like to go with the school. But I do think the estimate, this is one of the items in the CAP that I think is a bit wildly wrong estimate. I do agree that it was probably, it seems consistent with a very high level question to a company. What would it cost to refurbish a building of this size? And if they don't know what condition it's in, you know, the estimate is obviously going to be conservative on the high side as if it had all to be torn down and rebuilt. So I did want to add another thought, and that is I was going to originally amend, move to amend Supervisor Graber's motion, if we had gotten that far, about the high school expansions to make them less than 400 students per school on the following rationale. I've looked at the projections of the student capacities, as I've talked about before, from the school system itself and the student population projections, and found that according to their numbers, half of our overcrowding is going to go away with the James Wood expansion, with natural student population change. However, I've over the last 48 hours come to believe that those projections of students in the FCPS budget book may be wrong. They may underestimate county growth or have perhaps even neglected it altogether. So I think it's very hard for us. I think Supervisor Graber's numbers may be correct. If we need something in the plan to solve our immediate need, then we'd be wise to go with 400 students per school. And I had a great discussion with several people, with Superintendent, Hummer, and a few people on the school board, about the fact that we do really need to get better estimates of the student population and allow them to correct them if need be, so that we know as a community when we need to build that high school, when it needs to open, whether it is to begin immediately or whether that number won't be hit until later. I'm not sure we're operating on good data, not just with cost, but also on student populations. And I want to give them a chance to tell us the correct figures. Thank you. Yes, sir. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Mr. Graber, your motion was to table for a month. One meeting. Okay, one meeting. Thank you. Next meeting. Okay. Further discussion? Anyone? Are we ready? Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye and motion carries. This discussion will be delayed until our next meeting. Board liaison reports, are there any? Hearing none. Citizen comments? Did anyone sign up? Yes, sir. Rodney Wine? Yes. Welcome, Mr. Wine. Welcome, Mr. Wine. I'm Rodney Wine, Shawnee District. I'm here as an anomaly tonight. I know you guys are usually having people come up here and complain about different things. And that was me on May 22. I came to talk about the election issues. And I'm here with happy news that I don't have to say that. that I don't have to sue the electoral board and the county and everybody else I mentioned on that. There's two people I want to thank, Supervisor Graber and Brad Pollack. We're very critical in getting these issues taken care of and encouraging the electoral board and the registrar to come into compliance with Virginia code. So while I have some issues still pending with other things with the electoral board, I think we'll get those taken care of and might need a sign that says do not lean on this. I'm sorry. Maybe I'm over the weight limit. But anyway, good news. Thanks to Brad Pollack and Supervisor Graber for their help, and I don't have to sue you now. Thank you, sir. Anyone else, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. Is there anyone else who would like to address the board on any issue? Seeing no one, we'll close the citizen comment portion. Board of Supervisors comments, are there any? I do have one. Yes, sir. Supervisor Wells. I'd just like to share with my constituents out there, several of whom contacted me, came by the house or called, who were somewhat confused about the board's recent real estate tax reduction from 61 cents to 51 cents. Which was done in order to offer our citizens some relief from the recent high real estate assessments. And I explained to them that this was a reduction that was possible due to, on some part, that we're using part of the $36 million that was sitting in the county's capital fund. And on my behalf, I said during the work sessions, I was very wary of using these capital funds in order to... To reduce the tax rate. But after many work sessions, and I was ultimately convinced by several of the board members, Supervisor Slaughter, Supervisor Graver, and Supervisor Ludwig, that this was an opportunity that was available and a reasonable way to help our taxpayers during these tough times. And I feel good about that decision. It was mentioned by these folks that they were... They were concerned about what moved... When... Ended up causing the taxpayers a much greater tax increase at the end of two years. And the only thing I could tell them was, I said, well, I, for one, am unable to predict the future. So to tell you that that's going to happen, I just can't... That's an opinion that I may have, but that's only an opinion. So that being said, I'd just like to let my constituents know that I will do everything, work hard, to do what's best for the citizens, and for Frederick County, and keep our budget as best we possibly can. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Other comments? Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Chairman, this board of supervisors passed a budget last week with funding to ongoing operations, including a new fire station and equipment, an additional 9-11 operator, additional fire and rescue personnel to meet emergency responses, and school funding, including funding for buses. Contrary to what has been said by Mr. Ludwig to the Planning Commission last week, the county did not fund all department requests. The requested funding was reduced by about $8.5 million. Because of state law, we were required to advertise the tax rate in January, even before we had collected any information or had any discussion on what was needed by the county and how to pay for it. Ideally, we need to change the law so the board can have initial discussions and then advertise the rate. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our county baseline budget this year is about $119 million, not including money for schools. Supervisors agreed with thought we could save about 1% on restricting police car use, which may or may not cause resignations among sheriff deputies. But other than that, no one else had any specific comments on how to reduce the current FY23 budget. The number of county employees per 1,000 population, excluding deputies, fire and rescue personnel, and social service workers has actually decreased, meaning we are becoming more efficient with what we are delivering. We have about $36 million in our capital fund to pay for large capital projects. Mr. Ludwig and Mr. Graber said that we should not raise taxes because of the money in the capital fund, and we should use that money for county expenses. Therefore, we used about $24 million in the capital fund to pay for expenses. Included in that amount is about $10 million for transportation and annual operating expenses. Mr. Graber said that on March 26th, we have plenty of money to meet all of our needs. Last week, he talked about the limit to bleed for those same funds. That's inconsistent with his statements last month. Even if the amendments mentioned by Graber and Ludwig have passed, using capital fund money for operational expenses would still deplete the capital fund in about two to three years. That's my opinion. At that time, the county will either have to cut expenses and services to the county, raise taxes, or have significant business growth. We need to develop and improve. We need a five-year capital plan to recognize the needs of our growing population and designate money in the capital fund to account for those expected large infrastructure expenses. County costs are going to rise next year due to additional staff, inflation, and other expenses. We all need to find a way to address these budget issues in the coming year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Mr. Graber. So I'd like to set the record straight here for all of my constituents regarding this budget. The budget proposal is a little bit different than the budget proposal that was proposed by the committee. The budget proposals that we receive are usually scenarios. And the scenario that I proposed, the 51 cent scenario, was scenario A. The scenario that was passed was scenario B. While I did say in March that we could fund everything that we needed to fund out of our capital fund, it did not include all of the wants on the want list on scenario B that was ultimately passed by this board. Both Supervisor Ludwig and I had went through scenario A and found items where we felt that there needed to be additional staff. And I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. There were also areas that we did not feel that funding needed to be attributed to. At the last meeting, I made a series of amendments, four in total, and I was the only supervisor to make amendments, that would ask that this board be fiscally responsible and not deplete the capital fund. While I did say we could pull in from the capital fund some funds to meet certain needs, it would not have depleted the capital fund by any avenue in which it is currently being depleted. According to Supervisor Ludwig, I think that the board is not going to be able to do that. According to Supervisor Dunn's own numbers, the capital fund will likely be depleted in two years. Had you went with the scenario I had proposed, which was scenario A, it would have been much greater than five years and would have allowed the County's growth to catch up with the County's spending. What you have are four supervisors who have chosen more of a tax and spend approach than a fiscal responsibility approach. The $0.61 tax rate that was alluded to was something that I spoke of several times during the budget process, The first one was we had a meeting, the first meeting we had in January, where we discussed what rate should be advertised. There was a consensus, and it is recorded, that this board advertised a 51-cent tax rate. It is a recorded vote. That was not advertised by staff, and I have yet to still have an answer or a reason as to why that was not advertised by staff. Ultimately, again, at a following meeting, there was another vote taken on what should be advertised. A consensus, I should say, not a vote, a consensus taken. And the consensus then was to advertise a 61-cent tax rate. Those same four supervisors who voted to approve the budget last week were the same four that voted to advertise a 61-cent tax rate. The $36 million that the capital fund projects funds are for capital projects. While some of that is being used for things such as the fire station, which is needed, there were ways to save money in the purchase of said fire station. And there were ways to save money in the purchase of the fire station. There were ways to save money in the purchase of the fire station. There were ways to save money in the purchase of the fire station. There were ways to save money in other departments, such as the law enforcement vehicles that I shared with Supervisor Dunn. Supervisor Dunn asked all of us to give a 1% area where we felt 1% could be saved. I was the only supervisor that provided that. Now, I would not do the math for anyone, as I felt they needed to do their own math to come to their figures. However, we were all given the numbers from the county administrator on vehicles and the mileage in which they were driven outside of the county, so that we could all make a decision. This all circles back to one thing. The words that I used, and I believe maybe Supervisor Ludwig, I'll let him speak for himself, that we would agree to the use of the capital funds to fund all projects is simply a spin of our words and is not true. While I did say we could use capital funds and they could have been used to fund all our projects, that's what they did. That's what the four votes did. I never, not once, in our work sessions, advocated for that, pushed for that, or agreed to that. I wanted scenario A. We'd preserve our capital funds for a rainy day, because I believe a rainy day is coming very soon. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor Ludwig. Thank you, sir. I feel the need to clarify as well, since I was mentioned in previous comments. I stand by previous comments that when we voted originally to begin this budget and tax process, there were three supervisors who argued for a neutral tax rate on real property taxes. That was Supervisor... Supervisor McCarthy at his last meeting, Supervisor Graber, and myself. Other members felt like we should advertise and preserve the ability to raise taxes as high as over 20% on homeowners and businesses. I knew that wasn't needed, and I didn't want to see that happen. After that, we had a long budget process at which other tax increase rates were considered less than 20%, but still tax increases. So it was a long process. All spring. I believe I've been as accurate as I can be in pointing out to the Women's Republican Club and others that had we voted for the 51-cent tax increase in January at the very beginning of this process, that we would have preserved the tax rate that we ultimately decided on, and we could have spent the rest of the time worrying the budget details and seeing where we could save the taxpayers money. But unfortunately, Mr. Dunn provided the deciding vote there, or in the consensus decision, to keep the tax increase on the table at 61 cents. So fast forward to the final budget deliberation of last week, and once again, there were amendments put on the table, at least four of them by Supervisor Graber, which I thought were well thought out. All of them would have saved the county some money. But once again, we only had a few amendments. We only could get three votes at most for any of those amendments. And again, they were from the same districts, although they were Supervisor Graber, myself, and now Supervisor Lockridge for Gainesboro. So I just want to assure my constituents in the county that I agree with Supervisor Graber's assessment that we ultimately decided on a scenario that spends too much of the capital reserve. If we're going to offer tax breaks and reduce income, we have to be responsible. And make spending cuts as well, so we don't deficit spend. And that is something that we're going to have to take up in the future, or else, as Supervisor Dunn had noted, the decisions that he voted for at the last meeting would lead us into a tax crunch situation. But I believe that we can work the county budget in the coming years and come up with solutions that don't run us into a spending problem. Thank you, sir. Oh, one more comment. Yes, sir. There were other things worked on during the budget session, and in the week leading up to the final vote, up to last Wednesday, I received, I think we all did, a number of emails from Supervisor Dunn asking us to support a motion to more than double Supervisor's salaries. And I'm thankful that that didn't apparently get a second and was never presented. This has come up before, and especially in the situation needed, and I think that's something that we need to do. And if we're not succeeding to control spending, I don't think that would have been the right move at all. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Vice Chairman. Mr. Chairman, I motion to adjourn. Move to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll stand adjourned. We thank everyone for their time, attention, and their participation. Thank you, everybody. Any other suggestions? Not addition. Any questions? All those in favor? None? OK, it is abandoned. Move to adjourn. То ㅇном Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You are welcome. You are welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Michael. God bless? God bless. Thank you. God bless. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 22 2 2 3 1 2 3 4 5 9 1 2 21 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dasher dollars point. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
