Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2023-09-27
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=198
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. . Yes. Yes. I have a�ряb do remind you when you might want to talk about taking pa break. I don't think it goes up. I don't think it goes up. I think what you have to do is put the chair down. Do you want the regular chair? I may do that. Here. Just take this. Let's just switch. Yeah, but we don't want to do that. Would you like a regular chair? Yes. Go ahead. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Lord God. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. nations, under God, individual, who has delivered you in justice for all. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Wells. Yes. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County approve remote participation by Chairman Charles DeHaven for medical reasons. Second, Mr. Chairman. Discussion? If not, Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. Thank you, sir. So the Chairman is now involved. Thank you. Citizen comments? The citizen comments, Mrs. Phillips? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Point of order. Adoption of the agenda before citizens' comments. And I would hereby make a motion to adopt the agenda as presented with one exception. I'd like to take 6-I. 6-I. 6-India off of the consent agenda and move it down to 8-Echo. I have a discussion item. So 6-I off the consent agenda to make it 8-Echo and adopt the agenda as presented. That is my motion. I have a second. Discussion? All in favor say aye. Aye. All opposed? It's done. Citizen comments now? Yes, sir. We had three electronic comments that were submitted to you earlier. The first person who signed up this evening is Brian Nury. Good evening, members of the board. My name is Brian Nury, resident of the Opecan District. On September 11th, a standing member of this board appeared before the electoral board complaining about a private citizen's protest. If a person is in violation of electoral law, the electoral board, either here in the county or in the state, have jurisdiction over this. The Supreme Court states that a proper time, place, and manner can be established, which the state of Virginia does. However, these signs from one political party and then one private citizen are well within the restrictions laid forth by the... Mr. Ludwig, if you could look up and pay attention to your constituents. We know that your wife is very important right now, but you can sit and listen to us for a moment. Mr. Chairman, point of order. Finish the comments, please. Mr. Chairman, I have a question. I've reclaimed my time. Thank you. For a sitting supervisor to appear before the electoral board is rather odd when he came there in an official capacity, as he claimed on video, to complain about the protest, which is a First Amendment issue. To complain about it on public property is well covered in Code 24 of the Virginia electoral law. To complain about it on private property, which he also... Hello? Which he also did, is potentially a violation of 15.2-109, regulations on political campaign signs, which localities are not permitted to regulate on private property. Nothing was made permanent about the large political signs out there. They were all put on four-by-fours, no concrete, nothing put down to make them permanent. For a sitting member of this board to come in and bring an attorney to threaten the board and the registrar... Mr. Chairman, I have a question. Yes, please. Mr. Chairman, I have a question. The claim that the protest was made against the state of Virginia, which is a state of Virginia, is inexcusable. If you or your cronies have any evidence about these signs being illegal, then bring it. Otherwise, knock off the petulant behavior and campaign like a gentleman, like we all have done before. Thank you. Thank you. Candace Lundeen. Good evening. As you know, my husband... My husband... My husband and I breed AKC-registered, genetically health-tested small terriers for show and companionship. The total weight of all 30 of our adult dogs matches that for about six labs. Dogs are healthy, happy, retired young. The kennel is fully climate-controlled. Dogs have a quarter-acre to one-acre play yards. Ninety-nine percent of our pups go to homes outside of this county. Our pups are more likely to go to show homes in Europe than to a pet home in Frederick County. Pups are born and raised in our home. We feel strongly that dogs should not be bred in some warehouse property next to a strip mall in an area-zone commercial. Our dogs do not go to brokers, pet stores, or to retail rescue. We're not expanding. We've been in our current residence for more than three years, producing the same number of pups as we always have. All of our closest neighbors are in full support of us continuing exactly as how we have been all along. The debate that I find most interesting is the one that I've been in for a long time. I find myself embroiled in is all new to me. I come from a world of logic, science, statistics, and validated research, so the fabricated accusations, innuendo, and lies directed at me by the Loudoun County woman at our last public hearing was frankly shocking. It's not something I've ever experienced before, nor ever imagined in my chosen career, and hobby, and passion in working with and for animals. The number of purebred dogs in this country decreased by a quarter. I'm not sure if that's true. I'm not sure if that's true. The number of purebred dogs in this country decreased by 70% between 1993 and 2019. Many hobby breeders quit breeding dogs because of local and county legislation being pushed, setting limits on numbers of dogs and whether they could be bred or bred in one's home. As that happened, gene pools contracted, and the survival of many purebreds is now challenged. While dog breeding contracted, dog ownership actually increased 24% in the past 15 years. So where are the dogs coming from? Not from AKC breeders. The math does not work, no matter how much, somewhat to blame us. The attrition rate for dogs in this country is 8 million. That's the number of new pups needed to replace the dogs that die during a year. Even with the designer dogs, the mixes, being bred in large numbers, there's still not 8 million pups born in this country. A few of you are surprised at the 100 to 150 pups I may produce in each year. I'm not sure if that's true. I'm not sure if that's true. I'm not sure if that's true. I'm not sure if that's true. I'm not sure if that's true. I'm not sure if that's true. I'm not sure if that's true. I'm not sure if that's true. Even with the designer dogs, the mixes, being bred in large numbers, there's still not 8 million pups born in this country. A few of you are surprised at the 100 to 150 pups I may produce in a year. Been doing it for many years. It's a drop in the bucket. A big warehoused commercial USDA facility may produce 5,000 to 10,000 pups per year. Is that really where you want your pup to be born? do you want them born in a Mexican puppy farm and smuggled in and sold to unsuspected buyers? It happens all the time. It happens because too many home breeders have been chased away by the kind of people who have tried to do it to me now. Do you want to hear more later? Let me know. Thank you. Marsha Brody. You can pull that down. Good evening members of the board. I'm here to support Candace and Frank in there and to provide some additional information. In the 1980s, pet shelter operators claimed they were working to put themselves out of business. However, very few closed their doors. As pet overpopulation became reduced. Instead, many became pet retailers importing rescue dogs from different parts of the world with little understanding of the public health implications. America now has some 10,000 rescues compared with a few dozen that we had in the 70s and fewer domestic dogs to fill the shelters. While developing countries have hundreds of millions of street dogs and farm puppies available for exports. Thousands come from South Korea, China and the Middle East. They get distributed around the United States and sometimes shelter directors don't even know where the particular dogs have come from. In 2006, America had 287,000 imported rescues. Today, more than a million. So the issue of we can't solve the issue of these foreign street dogs by blaming American pedigree dog breeders. Retail rescue has become a leading health and welfare issue. And when it is backed by lobby groups, it threatens the preservation of breeds and healthy American dogs. Imported dogs are reintroducing diseases and parasites that had been previously eliminated in the United States. When 1300 dogs carrying canine influenza imported from South Korea ended up in Chicago in 2015, dog businesses had to be shut down and dogs had to be euthanized or quarantined. The cost of that outbreak to the economy was between 25 and $75 million. And the cost of that outbreak to the economy was between 25 and $75 million. And the cost of that outbreak to the economy was between 25 and $75 million. And the cost of that outbreak to the economy was between 25 and $75 million. And the cost of that outbreak to the economy was between 25 and $75 million. Today, an ever increasing number of unhealthy and ill-tempered rescue dogs pour into our community and threaten the public. Just this weekend, a Ford Transit van overturned on the Maryland-Delaware border with 35 animals on board. So we would think that an activist group concerned with overflowing shelters would want to know more about the sources of these dogs. And we just want to compare with what's actually happening. In 2001, the National Animal Interest Alliance, which is a national animal interest alliance, announced that the National Animal Interest Alliance was the largest dog-based animal organization in the United States. In 2001, the National Animal Interest Alliance was the largest dog-based animal organization in the United States. The National Animal Interest Alliance began the shelter project gathering shelter statistics. For the state of Virginia, dogs coming into the shelter system decreased by 12 percent in the past ten years. But ten years ago, only 10 percent entered Virginia from out of the state or out of the country. But more than 10,000 came from outside sources. That's why the shelters remain full. As responsible dog breeders are forced to stop breeding. As responsible dog breeders are forced to stop breeding. are more than happy to fill the void. As Candace said, AKC breeders are only producing one third the number of puppies that they did in the 80s, but there are more American homes wanting to keep puppies. So we would like everybody to please stop blaming the American breeders and supporting the foreign discards. Thank you. Thank you. Deborah Snyder. Good evening, Deborah Snyder from Gainesboro District. I'm here again tonight to discuss the tower on Poorhouse Road. I am still waiting for the administration to acknowledge the falsified measurements on the site plan and the actual fall zone for the tower and to address the number of zoning ordinances that are not being followed. I listed those in a letter I sent to each of you, but I would like to focus on one more this evening. 165-204.19 regarding towers includes that adjoining properties surrounding poorhouses, residential properties, land use patterns, scenic areas, and properties of historic value are not negatively impacted. The tower on Poorhouse Road will be sitting at the base of Round Hill, a predominant feature of Frederick County. The scenic area it provides is one that many county residents enjoy. Every week, I see cars parked at the apple orchards to get a view of the sunset going down behind the hill. I've even seen people set up easels to paint the scene. Putting in this tower will destroy that treasured view shed. My family moved here to get away from the towers and data centers taking over the suburbs. A large reason we moved to Frederick County was because the community valued its rural landscape. My property is roughly seven and a half acres, but there will not be a spot on my land where this tower will not be visible. My home, garden, and children's play area are all situated on the side of the shared property line. This tower will not only completely diminish our property value, but it will invade every moment of our lives as it towers over our home. My biggest concern is the radiation my family will be exposed to. The FCC bases its recommendations off a study from over 25 years ago. The standards set are outdated and inadequate. If you search online, you will find study after study outlining the harmful effects from radiation, including cancers, to neurological and cardiovascular disorders. I also sent you a study from Michigan Tech advising towers to be situated away from schools and hospitals. Schools, because growing children are at higher risk of negative effects. We have three children and we homeschool, so the majority of our time is spent at home and outside. Our home is our school. Hospitals, because radiation is detrimental to vulnerable populations, like those with compromised immune systems. I fall in that category. I have been diagnosed with late stage Lyme disease and I am struggling with muscular, cardiovascular, and neurological issues. In fact, I missed the original public notice in January, because I woke up one morning that week and all of a sudden couldn't walk. I am not sure how much quality time I have left with my children and I fear the radiation from this tower will only compound my issues and accelerate my decline. Again, I urge you to reconsider the placement of this tower. It will have a significant negative impact on my property value, the safety of my family, my own personal health, and the rural landscape that the county is supposed to preserve and protect. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list of folks who had signed up. All right, thank you very much. Board of Supervisors comments, are they ready? Consent agenda. Mr. Chairman, you need to now act on the consent agenda. That's the next item. Okay, on the consent agenda. Mr. Chairman. Yep. I make a motion that we approve the consent agenda as presented with the six I have taken off, as previously voted upon. Second. Is there a second? Second. All in favor? Aye. Aye. All opposed? Mr. Chairman, you need a roll call vote. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. Chairman. Aye. He passes, so the consent agenda has modified. It's been taken care of. Having said that, Board of Supervisors comments, are there any? No. All right. County officials, we have a visual broadband project update from all points. Please introduce yourself for the audience, and we'll look forward to your comments. Thank you, Mr. Chair, Mr. Acting Chair, and members of the board and audience. My name is Jimmy Carr. I'm the CEO of All Points Broadband, and I'm very happy to be back here today to give you all an update on the very significant progress we're making on what is, I think it's important to bear in mind, the largest broadband deployment project in the history of the Commonwealth of Virginia. So let me start, just a reminder, about the overview and the overall scope and scale of the project. All told, including the significant private investment being made, this is a $300 million-dollar broadband initiative, it's a major regional infrastructure initiative. It is a partnership that includes eight counties, you can see them here. The principle state support for this project, the so-called Vadi, from the City of Virginia, and the City of Virginia, the Office of State and State, The Virginia Telecommunications Initiative grant was awarded for this project in July of last year. I know the project was announced that it was coming in December of the year before, but our clock starts when the funding is actually awarded and we get started working. And so last July, the fiscal agent for that project, the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission and All Points entered into the contract with the state, and we began our 36-month timeline. So we're just over a year into a three-year project. All told, there will be just over 3,100 miles of brand-new distribution fiber built. This project will make true fiber to the home, so that is fiber from the cabinet and the data center all the way to the side of the house to just over 41,000 locations that are unserved by broadband today. And it's a very extensive partnership between not only Frederick County and All Points, but also our three electric utilities. We have three partners, Dominion Energy Virginia, the Rappahannock Electric Cooperative, and the Shenandoah Valley Electric Cooperative. Specific to Frederick County, again, the partners are, of course, the county, the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission, which is serving as fiscal agent and manager for the project, All Points and the two electric cooperatives that serve the county. We will be building just under 450 miles of brand-new fiber distribution infrastructure and connect that to the county. We will be connecting just over 7,100 locations in the county that are not served by wired broadband today. In terms of where we are in the project, and you all have seen a couple of these points before, but they bear repeating, so for the benefit of everyone here in the audience, just to kind of understand what goes into a project of this scale, we really have three key dependencies that we need to have in place before we can do the thing that everyone actually cares about, which is, go to the side of your house and bring the fiber there and hook up your wireless gateway. So, you know, in many respects, that last step, actually hanging the fiber on the poles and bringing it to the house, is the easiest. It's the least complicated. It's pretty simple. There's just a whole lot of prep work that goes in to get to that point. And the main dependencies we have, we need middle-mile capacity in place. We have to have utility poles made ready, and I'll talk a lot about the challenges that, that we are working through across Virginia in this area. And then we need a very large queue of constructible miles. What do I mean by that? You know, a lot of people think, oh, you're going to do a countywide broadband project, you're going to bring in a crew, and they're going to chip away, you know, 20 miles a month. That's not the way that happens, right? Right now, there's so much demand for this skilled labor that builds last-mile telecommunication networks, and they're all paid on a unit basis, right? You're not going to be able to do that. You get a certain number of dollars per foot of an activity. And so what we do to manage that demand, to bring in the best vendors and to manage price, we build up a very, very large queue of permitted, blueprinted work, and we release it to contractors in big, large buckets. And that way, they can minimize the number of managers and overhead they have in market. They're more efficient. And that's just, this has always been the thing in broadband, but with all the activity taking place right now, we're really seeing a lot of demand for this. We're seeing that we generally need to show at least one month of runway of permitted, approved work per crew before a large regional contractor will bring in a new crew to a market. There's been a lot of talk, a lot of concern, I think, in the press about, oh, materials, fiber, electronics. Very pleased to report we do not have that problem at all with this project. So as soon as this project was announced, all points we went to our major vendors, they are Buy America compliant, United States, U.S.-based manufacturers of cable and electronics. We updated our long-range forecast with them. We are seeing no issues in materials delivery for the outside plant components. So all of our deliveries are staged, are on schedule, and we feel good about where we are. Now, that does not show up in the routine reporting that we make to the regional commission or to the state, because remember, our contract is performance-based. So even though we are warehousing equipment, $17 million of inventory at the end of the second quarter related to this project, we don't actually get paid for that until we achieve a milestone that is in our contract. And so it just bears repeating, if you look at the monthly reports, as I'm sure some of you do, you don't see a lot of activity that we get to get paid for yet, but that is imminent. What is now underway is project-wide low-level design. So the high-level design is used, to secure the grant, put the project together, and then we go through actually developing the very specific low-level design, the printable work that you can hand over to a contractor in the field and say, go build this. So that is happening in stages throughout the project, and immediately after that, we begin what's called the utility pole fielding process to begin working with our electric utility partners to get their poles ready for us to attach. In some cases, we'll go underground, but wherever we can, we want to attach to existing poles. And I'm going to talk a lot about that process, because it's something people hear about, they may not really understand, and recognizing you do have a busy agenda tonight, I'm going to go into just a little bit of detail about all that goes into that process. So what has been happening with respect to Frederick in particular? So we have now completed, substantially completed low-level design for the network in Frederick. This is a bit technical, but you can see the network, the network is in the middle, and the network is in the middle, and the network is in the middle, and the network here will have 20, what are called fiber service areas. So those are kind of discrete units. They're kind of individual rings where we provide service. There will be a larger countywide primary ring. You see that in green to provide redundancy throughout the network. There will be a mix of 105 cabinets, so about 20 kind of larger cabinets that are called active that you might see on the side of the road, and then about 85 what we call passive cabinets, that will typically be mounted on a pole in the right-of-way. Countywide fiber ring I mentioned. So what's happening right now is that this design has been done. The next step that we have, we send our engineers out into the field again to compare the design with the conditions in the field and make sure, yes, that's actually constructible. That process is nearly complete. We go through a QA, QC process internally, and then we'll submit, all of that design to the state. I'm pleased to report that here in Frederick, and that's our first major milestone in our contract, so we are on schedule right now to clear that milestone in the fourth quarter, actually a little bit ahead of schedule. And part of what we did to react to conditions in the market, we really front-loaded a whole lot of design activities, so we're sure that we had the right materials and so we could begin the very significant effort that we have for pole make ready. So now I'm going to step back and talk about Frederick and the overall eight-county project that you are all a part of. We commenced low-level design that I mentioned earlier in the third quarter of last year, shortly after all the grant paperwork was in place. In the first half of this year, we began the make ready fielding, engineering, and construction, and that's going to be happening on a rolling basis throughout all counties for the next two years. In the fourth quarter of this year, and this is a pretty important thing for you, as a board, to be aware of, a lot has changed, a lot has happened in broadband even since this project was put together. Two things in particular that are actually quite good news for the county. So the first thing is the definition of what constituted broadband went from 25-3 to 100 by 20. So that means that in particular in Frederick, some locations that were challenged out of our original project because they had 25-3, they don't have 100 by 20, and so now that is a newly eligible location. The other thing that happened that, and you all have probably heard me say, anyone who knows anything about broadband knows that the federal maps are the best there are, and they also know they're not very good. The federal maps have actually gotten a lot better. They're still not great, but it used to be in Virginia that we used what's called the VGen database. You all are probably familiar about this. Once a quarter, each county uploads a GIS shape file that says here are all the buildable lots in our county. And so that was the mapping system. That was the base layer that the Commonwealth of Virginia used to build. So that's the mapping system. That was the base layer that the Commonwealth of Virginia used to build. The feds have come up just earlier this year with their own new maps, and it's location-based. And so that's really, one of the knocks on the old map was it's based on an area, right? If anyone in this area has got broadband, everyone does. That doesn't make any sense. So the feds have gotten better, and so the combination of changing the definition of broadband by bringing it up, and also changing, moving from a zone or parcel base layer to a location-specific base layer is going to mean that there are more locations, even in Asian backgrounds where you'reส § to an even larger volume in that situation, so there's been abandonment of broadband into local locations from time to time. So if you go to COümüNOTX we're going to be in the middle of the USI region using this one to build graphics for districtvez.com step outside of the July 15thzers. Absolutely. That's going to be really, pretty bad. As we have publicly reported, our initial focus of construction activity will be in Augusta County. The question that the boards of supervisors and all other counties other than Augusta ask is, why didn't we go first? And unfortunately, in a project that has eight counties, someone has to go first. But really what we look at is how do we need to organize and stage all of the different interdependent tasks across these eight counties, but also balancing the workloads for all the other work going on around Virginia to make sure that we get our overall project substantially complete in our three-year time frame. So this kind of a Venn diagram about where make ready can be available soonest, where utility middle mile, where the other conditions are right, and it just happened that Augusta County was the place to start. We are now projecting that the last mile construction, again, that's the easiest part. You'll see things before this. But our stringing five. We're up along the poles along the street. We'll be starting in the fourth quarter of next year here in Frederick. I want to be very careful to caution that this is a very fluid thing. The number one determinant of where we can build when is the condition of the poles and how well they can be made ready. So, again, we balance that across our electric utility partners and throughout the project. But our current indication, our current plan for Frederick is the fourth quarter of this year. We would begin. We're lighting customers in those 20-some fiber services in Frederick on a rolling basis, starting in the first quarter of 2025. And, again, the deadline for the overall project is substantial completion in the third quarter of 2025. Okay, next, and I won't make this too much of an engineering lecture, but I think it's just really important to provide you all because you will hear from your constituents. People want to know, what is this make ready thing? What's happening? So if you think about it, our project, most broadband deployment projects, because it is more cost effective, rather than burying, especially in an area with a lot of rocky terrain, we want to attach to poles that are already there. Okay, so quick primer on what's on a pole. Up top here, A, B, and C, that's three-phase primary distribution wires. That's carrying higher voltage from a substation. Okay, down here, this gray cylinder, that's the transformer that kind of steps down the power to the level that's safe to go to the customer's house. D down here, this is the power neutral. That balances the load on the electrical system, and it's also typically the lowest thing in what is called the power space, right? So everything up above the neutral is hot. That's an electric lineman works there only. That's a very, very dangerous place to work. Highly specialized training. The power company and authorized vendors are the only people who work there. Usually 40 inches below the lowest thing here, which is the neutral. Sorry. Okay. So you can see this is a power service drop. So that's going from the transformer over to a customer home. And you've got 40 inches of safety separation between you get to what's called the comm space or the communications space. So there, you know, this is a mix of actually fiber and cable there. Okay, so that's what's on a pole. And this pole's got communications attachments on it now. All right, so what is make ready? What do we say when we talk about that? All right, the primary thing that we need to do, so the National Electric Safety Code says, all that stuff, all those things need to be a certain distance apart in order to be safe. Right? And in addition to that, the lowest thing up there, which will in many cases be our new attachment, needs to be a certain distance above the ground. Right? And we don't study that on a nice afternoon in September. We're looking at that for what's happening in a 10-year ice storm when the wind is blowing from the worst possible direction. Right? Because this is electric safety. Lives are at risk. So the NESC has got the primary distances for separating things. And then in addition, and this varies significantly by utility, there are additional standards and studies and analysis we need to do. The main one you see there is what's called pole loading analysis. Okay, so what does it mean? What does make ready mean? So make ready is the process of taking existing utility poles and making them safe, to accommodate our new attachments. So that when all the stuff that's on there, plus all the stuff we add, is covered with an inch and a half of ice, when the wind is blowing in the perfectly wrong direction, is it still safe? Right? And that's literally what we're doing. They're generally, and again this is an oversimplification, but they're four things, and this is in increasing order of cost and difficulty that happen. The first and easiest is relocating communications line. There's enough room to have clearance between the poles. Right? Between the lowest communications attachment and the ground. If we just take the existing phone and move it up two inches, and then all points you guys have got plenty of space. That's pretty easy. It's called a reload. No big deal. The next thing is relocating electric equipment. Okay, well maybe we've got a little room to move the transformer up, and once we do that, there's still room on the poles to make it done. Okay, a little more expensive, a little more difficult. The third option is what's called a mid-span pole. So remember you've got two poles here, and you've got wires coming between them. And at the lowest point in the sag, you've got to be a certain distance above the state highway, or the farmer's field. And so sometimes those poles, the best solution is to add a new pole, mid-span, lift everything up to achieve clearance. And the fourth, most difficult, the thing that nobody wants to have to do, but happens quite frequently, is there's just no solution other than taking the existing pole and making it taller and stronger, and then taking all the electric stuff off the old pole, putting it on the new pole, taking all the communication stuff, off the old pole, putting it on the new pole, and then, oh, then, all points broadband, you get what's called a notice to proceed, you all can go attach. The first step in this process, and this is what you may have seen, we send a contractor out in the field. They drive, this is a very bright red car, they have lots of different colors, we've just picked this one, but people literally go out to every single utility pole that our high-level and low-level design call for attaching to. It's kind of hard to see it, and there's this weird white stick that's got red tape on it at three feet and six feet. And what you do is you put that white stick up against the pole, and you take a really fancy camera that figures out, okay, I know that's three feet between those two lines, and therefore, some AI, very fancy algorithm, says, all right, well, here's everything else, and I can quickly automatically calculate how tall everything is, right? So you're taking a very comprehensive inventory of what's on the pole. Every single pole, one person goes out there, you take four pictures from each side. Okay. Then what happens? Generally speaking, there's a 160-day timeline that applies to investor-owned utilities. It's kind of the industry standard for once all that data is gathered, we send that information to the pole owner, and we say we'd like to attach. Our partners, and I saw Mark Ponton from REC and also the team at SVC who I didn't see, they've been great partners for us. We've got a commitment from both of them to get to process 1,250 poles a month system-wide. That may not sound like a lot or a little. It is, in the case of most electric utilities, at least 50, if not 100 times, the volume that they are used to seeing in a typical year. Dominion is not active in Frederick County, but I just recently saw some of their public information. Dominion is on track this year to receive, seven to eight times as many pole application requests as they ever have in their most significant year ever. It is an absolutely crushing volume of activity that's taking place. A generational volume of work requires some new methods and approaches. I'm happy to report that we're working very closely with both electric co-ops to try and make this a more efficient process for everyone. Where are we on pole attachment status? This is one of the dashboards that I look at as a manager almost every single day. On the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Project, we've done that fielding step for just under 14,000 poles. Then 6,752 poles, and we actually pulled this this afternoon, all that data has been done, the application has been prepared, and they're sitting with the pole owner in that 165-day clock. So far, you can see on the far right there, the first 958 poles have gotten all the way through the process, and we've got approval to attach there. Now remember I said we want a couple months of work, so we really need to build up a large inventory. Of these, the oldest pending ticket for this regional project is 162 days old. The average pending ticket is 83 days. You can see those up here. Of the 958 poles that have gone all the way through the process, it took 79 days to make them ready. What's happening there, some poles don't require any work. And so if folks see those going through the process, they say, great, no work, get those out of the queue, turn them green. We are in the process right now. We're kind of gradually ramping up, but all points in conjunction with all of the pole owners project-wide is ramping up to a cadence of 4,500 poles per month, which is a very Herculean task. So that's that. That's where we are with Make Ready and kind of what's happening with the project. Let me just touch real quick again on additional areas that may not have been eligible in the past, but will be now. Can't emphasize this enough. No one likes this answer, but the rules are very clear. The grant money that we've already received is for the specific locations and the specific areas that we included in the application and that someone else didn't successfully challenge out. And that's it. So the plans are tied. That's where we can use that funding. Because of the two changes I mentioned earlier, definition of broadband has gone up in a favorable direction, and there's a new set of maps that apply. There are going to be additional locations that we didn't get that are now eligible for broadband. Now, in fairness, we may have missed some. You've probably also heard me say that no process based on humans is 100%. We usually get about 97% right. So we have some that we missed, but we have a lot of new ones eligible. This is something that all points, Scott, the county team, and the regional commission are laser focused on. As we identify these locations, we've got a couple of options on the menu to make sure that they're served. The first is those that we can just expand to, not using grant money, but using our own investment. We want to identify those as soon as possible and get them into the project design. The second option is Virginia has just received, Virginia has just been allocated and will over the next year receive an additional $1.48 billion in federal broadband funding. So that is an additional pot of money that will be available. Virginia is running right now two broadband funding programs. We have the VOTI program that we've successfully competed in with you all last year, and there's also the BEAD program. We committed publicly before, and we'll reiterate that today. When we asked you all to participate and invest in the project, we said this is the last county match we're ever asking for, and we meant it. So to the extent we need to go back and submit what we call a cleanup application to make sure everyone is included, we will do that, and that's on us. And we won't be asking for any local contribution toward that project. The third thing, we do find in a county like Frederick, a large number of the locations that are unserved, they're actually in an incumbent cable footprint. They just have a super long driveway. And because of the limitations of coaxial cable as a transmission medium, there's only but so long a distance you can go. So when we see those come over the transom, it's not cost-effective at all for us to build there. It's very inefficient. We will refer those to the county. The state has what's called the LECAP program, the Line Extension Program, to help make that possible. So we still use APBfiber.com as our single source of truth. We need people to come in there and let us know that they believe that they're in the right place. That they believe that they're unserved, and they believe they're not covered by our project. So we can gather that data and make sure we route those locations through the right vector to get them served. Again, how can Frederick help? You've heard me say these points before. Please make sure that residents' inquiries are going to APBfiber.com. I'll show you what that looks like on the next slide. It's super important that, especially if people believe they are unserved by broadband, and they get a message that they're not in our project area, they have to fill out the survey. Tell us that so we can gather that data, capture it, we share it with county staff, we route those through the process to make sure that every single resident of Frederick County will be served. Continue doing it. Scott does an excellent job of this, of making sure that you're sharing that mapping data with us. And assume that the most recent FCC data that's coming out, the state will put out its own version of that in October. It's getting a lot better, but it's still not 100% accurate. So this is really the way that the new federal funding programs are working. It is critically important for residents, if they believe that they are unserved by broadband, and they're not included in the project already, the period between October and December of this year is absolutely critical. We have worked with you. We've done mail surveys, online surveys. Many of you have sent newsletters to your constituents to make sure we find the people who believe that they're unserved. Who believe that they're unserved, who aren't included. Unlike in the past, this year a map is going to come out from the state in October. Everybody has to look at that, especially if they're not served. And if you're home, if you're unserved and your home is not on that map, you need to work with us to make sure we get you on the map. Because that will be the definitive source of truth, and it's not going to be perfect. So it's going to be really important that we drive inquiries from residents to that single source of truth, and make sure that we capture those locations. Finally, this is a look, sorry it's a bit grainy, about what the APB Fiber website looks like. So someone will come online, you start typing your address, there's an algorithm that will finish typing it for you. If you're in the project area, it will say good news, you're inside of a planned service area, and we're going to encourage you to give us your information. That is so, remember that 90 days before fiber service becomes available in one of those 20 FSAs, that's when we will start reaching back out to the consumer, and saying, okay, we're ready to start scheduling installs. So what we want to make sure is that as many locations as possible who are interested have pre-registered in advance, that way we can schedule the crews and be as efficient as possible and start signing up people as promptly as possible. So again, folks should not expect to be contacted to select their plan, or schedule their install until about 90 days ahead of service availability, but it's super important, it's super helpful for us for people to go there and pre-register. Once you pre-register, you can opt in for ongoing project updates, so information like I'm presenting tonight would be made available to folks who pre-registered. The final thing I want to call your attention to is, again, we're beginning to ramp towards last mile construction in the county. We will, over the course of October, be sending a flyer like this to every single one of those 7100 and change locations that are included in the project area, so that people know that they're included in the project area. It's got that QR code on it, so they can just take out their phone, scan the QR code, it takes you straight in so you can pre-register, and that's where people can go and make sure they've got the most accurate and up-to-date information about the status of the project. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions you have. Mr. Chairman. Excellent presentation, thank you. I was going to ask, I've had a number of people, constituents ask, how they make sure, that they're going to be able to get served, and of course, APBfiber.com, you made that very clear. APBfiber.com, yes. I guess the other question would be, is there a deadline that people need to pre-register, or at least add their address so they can be properly considered? There's not a deadline, and if you don't pre-register, it's not like if you call once service is available, we're going to say, sorry, you didn't pre-register. But I think it's super important for people to pre-register now, because that will help us make sure that everyone who believes in us, that everyone who believes they're unserved, is either included in our project, or caught up in our clean-up round. The main reason to pre-register now is to get a notice that says, let me go back, good news, you are in a planned service area, where if they don't get that, they need to go ahead and fill out this survey, and in the notes down here, say, hey, I'm unserved, I'm not in your project area, what gives? I'm paraphrasing, but then we can go back, and then we have the information, so that when the final important broadband map that matters comes out later in the fall, we can cross-check all those locations of people who've said, oh, maybe they weren't served, and we can make sure to get them on the eligibility list for our clean-up round. Anybody else have any questions? I'll just make one, thank you very much, and again, the place that if people have questions is appfiber.com. appfiber.com. So if you're in Frederick County and you don't know, go to that website. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next item on the agenda is a resolution prohibiting leasing of space in the Frederick County Public Safety Communication Radio Tower on Poorhouse Road. Yes, I make a motion to, I had asked, I had directed staff to come up with that resolution, and I make a motion to follow that motion, and prohibiting the leasing of the space on the Poorhouse Road 911 communication tower. Is there a second? Second. Discussion? If I may. When we originally started the 911 towers, we had asked that there be the ability to have broadband airspace put on each tower. With the broadband, all-point broadband system that we entered into agreement with post this resolution, it kind of nullifies a lot of this. I don't like taking away options. However, I understand the rationale behind this one, so I will support it. Thank you. All right. Any other questions? Mrs. Loughridge? I just wanted to say, as I had said in our previous meeting, and I believe we have Seth Haynes here to speak in regards to that, but this would be one way to help mitigate the damage or the impact to that specific tower. Okay. I appreciate that. In that case, at the same time, Mr. Graver, we've gone through this, and I think that there is a place for this. Even if this fails, you still have to go through a public hearing for a specific item on this specific tower. So I respect that comment. Having said that, if there's no further discussion, we'll take a vote. Mr. Chairman, I'd like a little clarification for that. I'm not sure that a public hearing needs to be held. I'm not sure that a public hearing needs to be made on this matter. I'd ask for clarification maybe from the county attorney. Does there need to be a public hearing regarding this matter, or can this matter be a simple up and down case with this resolution? If I can ask for clarification on the question, is that in the future if we were to lease space, would a public hearing be necessary, or is a public hearing necessary on the current motion? Is a public hearing required on the current motion? No. Thank you. All right. Ms. Gett, Ms. Lockridge, take a vote. Aye. This would be prohibiting the leasing of this courthouse road. Aye. Mr. Graver. Aye. Mr. Wells. Aye. Mrs. Slaughter. Aye. Mr. Ludwig. Aye. Mr. Dunn votes no. Mr. Chairman. No. The ayes have it. Thank you very much. Next item on the agenda is Supervisor Reed. Mr. Graver requested a discussion with the county's public safety communication radio system. I believe you have somebody here that wants to address some issues. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, I would ask if Mr. Seth Haynes would come and give a presentation, and I'll let him speak for his own credentials. He's presented each one of us on this board a map that the federal government, state governments provide as far as radio compatibilities and things with the current test, the current contract that we have in place. I'd like to allow him to explain those, how they fit in our current system and some inadequacies that he may have found, and allow for there to be discussion and questions afterwards. So, Mr. Haynes, there's no further. That'd be fine. Thank you, sir. Go ahead, Mr. Haynes. Members of the board, thank you for your time. I appreciate it. I'd like to get into some details associated with the radio network system we talked about previously. I apologize. This was supposed to be presented at the last meeting, so I'm sorry for the date being incorrect. We're going to start with the bottom line up front and then just kind of move through. Ms. Snyder provided the emotional and visual representations. I'm going to talk about the math and the money and the science behind some of the considerations. So, looking at the RFP that was FOIA'd, we basically determined that you have the proper requirements for an emergency system that will supply the county with what's necessary for support personnel, like the sheriffs and the EMS systems, to actually serve the county. So, everything that was in the RFP is in the RFP. Thank you. Thank you. And we also have the data that we're going to be providing for the emergency personnel. So, we're going to be providing the data that is accurate in terms of what is necessary to meet the digital and audio standards for emergency personnel to actually perform their actions. We see no issues with what EF Johnson has prepared for the VHF coverage. That's the one-way pager system. VHF is extremely robust in terms of being able to propagate over a large area. That's how we get our television and such all the way from Washington, D.C. out here. But UHF has a problem, and so that's where we'd like to talk with you a little bit about that. The All Points broadband team did a great precursor for the new technology that's coming up. And a lot of the original design in terms of, like, being able to make money back on the towers becomes nullified with the fact that wireless carriers in 6G deployments are not going to be propagating towers the same way that 4G and 5G required. They're actually going to be utilizing fiber as their transport and going with micro or pico cells. So you're going to see hundreds or thousands of these little cells as opposed to, which can run at lower power, take up less overall power, and provide better coverage, as opposed to giant towers with giant antennas on them that put out a lot of power. So technology is going to negate some of the long-term financial reasons why you want to own your towers. If anything, Shentel and some of the other tower providers should be worried about what's coming down the line for 6G and for low-Earth orbit satellite capabilities. We also are going to look at some of the hybrid site designs. So from an ideal perspective, this is looking at it from a physics situation, what's the best possible coverage that we can provide to the EMS and sheriff's team for our area, given the requirements? And so I'd like for consideration to be given by the members of the board to look at the payback study specifically, because I don't think we're going to make our money back, and to look at the way the coverage is currently designed, because I think we have some gaps that we need to close in order to provide our EMS and support personnel with the appropriate radio communication. So this is a brief overview of the key points of the RFP that got put out. This was originally constructed as a draft probably in 2019, it was released in 2020, and it has specific coverage areas that are important. You have the I-81 corridor and you have the Winchester City, basically, and surrounding area. And that 20 dB coverage is basically how far off of the noise floor, the general ambient RF environment that exists around here. You have to exist in order to make sure that you're in the right place. You have to be able to get clear calls. This is the difference between the sheriff's officer hearing a yes command versus a no command versus nothing at all and static. The 12 dB of coverage is basically the remainder of the county. And that's achievable, that's a lot easier to achieve, because remember, the decibel scale is logarithmic. So the difference between 12 and 20 is a very large difference. And it makes the difference between actually being able to hear somebody and just getting a one-way communication. So with that in mind, we have some new technologies to consider. When this draft RFP was originally written, probably back in 2018 or 2019, the first Starlink satellite hadn't even been launched yet. Elon Musk was still looking at stuff and putting it together and trying to get funding for it. Now we have a constellation of Starlink out there that is going to be going up to 7,500 satellites. Frederick County has full coverage of Starlink. I'm a Starlink user myself at our farm. That provides hundreds of megabits per second of download, and I would love for all points broadband to come in. And also provide us with fiber on that. So you're looking at a low-Earth orbit capability that's going to nullify a lot of the tower requirements, because you have the ability to send large amounts of data through satellite communications at a low cost. And then with all points broadband delivering fiber in a ring around your county, the fiber that they're delivering is capable of handling 10 or 100 gigabits per second. We're talking about orders of magnitude larger than what can come in over a radio system. So we would have the ability to go to a 6G Pico system. And again, towers are going to be able to handle that. And again, towers are going to continue to devalue. You're going to see them being torn down because they're going to be loss leaders for certain companies. And you're going to see things like Shentel going over to fiber and such as opposed to constructing more towers. So E.F. Johnson's original design actually that went through the RFP process covered a lot of existing sites. I don't know if you can read it very well. I apologize. But the site status said existing versus greenfield. And a lot of those sites were converted to towers because of the original financial implications pre-low-Earth orbit satellites. And that's what we're talking about. Low-Earth orbit satellite and pre-broadband. When the county was looking at how can I get information to my EMS system and information out to the people that live in the county, this made perfect sense. But technology has evolved. And the times have been updated. And so I'm not saying that the original RFP was incorrect. It wasn't. Nobody knew that Starlink was going to be a thing. And nobody knew that the Broadband Act from the federal government was going to dump hundreds of millions of dollars into Virginia. So the original design that E.F. Johnson came up with was accurate. And it's actually based very closely to where RF propagation models would have put everything perfectly. So just a real quick reminder on the public spectrum. So VHF is on the lower end. This is where your digital television and your TV, Broadbands, and stuff like that come from. This is why we can get NBC from Washington, D.C. in most cases. And then as you move into the UHF and as the frequency get higher, the transmission capabilities get less. You have to increase the amount of power. I'm oversimplifying. I apologize. Claude Shannon is probably turning in his grave right now. But when you move up the frequency, you have to increase the power or you decrease the distance essentially that you're able to support. So as part of the delivered audio quality, this is the thing that basically says a P25 network, which is a public safety network, needs to deliver a 3.4 quality DAC, which essentially is speech, understandable, without repetition. Some noise or noise. Some noise. Some noise. Some noise. So this is the dispatcher basically providing a command and not having to repeat it to the person in the field and the person in the field being able to respond back to the dispatcher. So and many times, and I might put the sheriff on the spot here, he can probably hear what the dispatcher is saying. But when he goes to transmit back, he might have to repeat himself to the dispatcher. Because this is the difference between I've got a booming tower that's sending out lots of power, and then I've got my handheld that's limited to the dispatcher. And then I've got my handheld that's limited FCC because it's on a human body next to a person's head to about three watts of power. You've got to make sure that the antenna that is actually receiving that communication is close enough to receive it. So we're going to look at some pretty pictures, or at least pictures that a physics person might like. The red and orange and yellow is good DAC. If you see red and orange and yellow, you're going to be able to, that sheriff's deputy is going to be able to talk back and forth to dispatcher, no issue. When you get down into the greens and the blues, or the aquas or whatever color that is, my wife's the colored person, not me, but that's acceptable. You're going to get into a situation where you might be able to hear in most cases. And then when you get down into this negative, this dark blue and this purple, the officer will receive the communication, but he will not be able to respond back. So let's look at the manual reconstruction of the original EF Johnson design. So I apologize. This is a little bit of an eye chart. But this was originally FOIA because it was considered proprietary. So we rebuilt it manually based on where their locations were, based on their antennas that they're using, and the amount of power that's allowed by the FCC. So you can see that we had in the original EF Johnson design pretty decent coverage. They did go across the border up here into West Virginia, which was a no-no. And they did also use some stuff down here in Shenandoah County, which you guys have since also coordinated with in order to utilize the tower that's down there. So pretty decent coverage. They did a pretty decent job. Frederick County's current positions leave some gaps. You'll note some gaps here along the Route 81 corridor. You'll note some dark here. And I'm going to zoom into these so you don't have to go too crazy on trying to get out the binoculars here. But in Winchester City, there's some coverage gaps and there's some items over here in the Mount Pleasant area and such that are concerns. They would receive the communication, but they would not be able to transmit back. So parts of Old Town Winchester. These are the dark, the purples. There would be parts that are just, I mean, when you're inside of a city and you don't have good coverage from your antennas, you're not going to be able to receive, you're not going to be able to transmit, retransmit communications. You may receive the traffic, but you won't be able to acknowledge or report back. Same with the I-81 corridor. The tower that got moved there, the Middletown Tower specifically, got moved further south for some reason. I'm not sure exactly why. But it left a coverage gap along I-81 essentially before you picked up with the Brimstone Tower. Apple Pie Ridge. Anybody that's been out that way, beautiful rolling hills. Rolling hills are devastating to RF communications. So you have essentially a series of ridges and in those valleys, you're not going to get any coverage whatsoever. So if you're down on the left-hand side of Apple Pie Ridge and somebody's in an EMS problem, you're not going to be able to transmit out. You're going to be able to tell the person to go there, but they're not going to be able to let you know what's going on. And then same with Mount Pleasant. Mount Pleasant has a beautiful view of North Mountain and it's right on the other side of the South Island. So you can see the mountains. You can see the south side of Round Hill. And it's a gorgeous drive out through there with all kinds of apple orchards, but it's in a little bit of a valley. And that creates an RF propagation problem. So the proposal here is that we reevaluate based on the physics that we know, based on the fact that the towers may not actually be profitable over the long haul. Because an average tower life spans anywhere between 20 and 25 years. So you have to have maintenance payments and such on that. And in 20 or 25 years, we're going to have Leo constant. Sorry. I didn't know that was going to be consistent. So we're going to have 10 gigabit constellations and tens of thousands of units will have broadband, fiber broadband, 10 gigabit broadband. We're not going to be leasing the tower for any communications purposes. It will be sold. If you had to look at the financial situation and say if these towers solely provided public safety services, are they good for the county or are they bad for the county? And so that's why I would propose actually that we change a couple of locations in order to go with a lease plus build combination. Build would offer the necessary RF coverage up the 81 corridor. It actually utilizes some of E.F. Johnson's originally proposed locations because they were the correct physics for the problem. And it also moves one or two of the leased towers and actually adds a location in order to provide coverage for the Mount Pleasant area. Mount Pleasant is a very interesting area in that North Mountain does not have the correct look angle in order to actually achieve the RF needs. So coverage comparisons, real quick. Here's what the original was of what E.F. Johnson currently has in place as best we can rebuild it since the information was considered proprietary. This would be what a hybrid tower design. So if we were to talk to Chantel who owns a tower right up about here, it's outside the picture, you'd have complete and total coverage of the city of Winchester in the 20 dB range. Same with the 81 corridor. You'd be able to essentially have perfect coverage. Updating. Updating. Updating. Updating. 1881 for the handoff to Brimstone. Appapai Ridge, this is the same tower that's serving Winchester. You'd be able to get down in those valleys. You'd be able to handle Middle Road, Appapai Ridge, and the cascading valleys to go there. And it would be picked up by Clearbrook on the north side of that. Mount Pleasant, Chantel put a tower right down the bottom of Mount Pleasant for a reason. They had commercial coverage reasons and they had consumers that were basically complaining to Verizon all the time when you look back at the FCC fund. So they put a tower down there, adding some UHF content to this tower would provide complete coverage and close all of your gaps associated with anything from North Mountain over to the Middletown area. We also have some tower layout considerations that I'm concerned with in terms of resiliency. So these towers are linked via microwaves. So they're meant to have a backup as part of the RFP. They're required to have a backup in case one tower were to fail. You don't want your entire system collapsing from single-point failure. So we did an analysis, essentially, of the latitude and longitudes, the antenna height, the AGL, essentially, above mean sea level, and we started looking at our beautiful terrain in this county. So EF Johnson's original proposal said that the mixed forest around here, according to the proposal, was only about 15 meters tall. Anybody that's been in Frederick County for a while knows that you've got oak trees probably right over here that are more than 15 meters tall. And if you look, the state of Virginia says that the black oak, the white oak, and the hickory oak all can go to – up to 120 feet. Most of them go between 60 and 100 feet. So their height considerations and their original RF design chopped about half the tree off, which we all know you can't transmit through solid objects very well. So if we look at line-of-sight considerations, specifically from the poorhouse tower, linking might via microwave down to the Middletown tower, the county would need to actually employ some zoning restrictions in this area, which is right around in here, which has a forest on it, by the way, in order to ensure that the trees are not falling off. And to ensure that nobody wrecks anything fairly tall. Now, the county's residential zoning right now restricts anything to 50 feet, but that doesn't restrict things like windmills or things that somebody might put up on their farm. They're allowed to go higher than that. Those plots of land would need to have restrictions if they're going to be used for the line-of-sight microwave because of the height restriction. Same with going out to the Clearbrook Tower. It's even worse. This actually, this little ridge right here, is right by Jameswood High School. And there's a – if you've all been over to Jameswood High School lately, you'll know that this is the place where the trees are planted. Behind the tennis courts, there's a ridge that runs behind the church over there. That ridge has got some tall hickories and tall oaks on it. And I have a feeling that's why E.F. Johnson extended the height of the poorhouse tower by 50 feet in an attempt to get over that ridge. So if there's any way that we're going to have a microwave link over to Clearbrook, we're going to need to change the zoning associated with the land that's right there by Jameswood. Brimstone Tower has its own concerns. It's actually not that bad. It's a little bit more of a problem than the other ones. It's a little bit more of a problem than the other ones. But it's a little bit more of a problem than the other ones. And it's a little bit more of a problem than the other ones. So, I think that's a good thing. And it's a little bit more of a problem than the other ones. And it's a little bit more of a problem than the other ones. And it's a little bit more of a problem than the other ones. And it's actually not that bad when you look at it from our, uh... UK geografic, like a topographical potential. UK geografic, like a topographical potential. But the problem with Brimstone is it's really close to the Winchester Regional Airport. But the problem with Brimstone is it's really close to the Winchester Regional Airport. By really close, I mean that it's about 5,600 feet away from the edge of the runway. By really close, I mean that it's about 5,600 feet away from the edge of the runway. By really close, I mean that it's about 5,600 feet away from the edge of the runway. 5,600 feet away from the edge of the runway. So the result of that is the tower height that's being put forth by the county is likely not going to be approved by the FAA. You can put a tower there. They can't stop you from doing that, but they're going to restrict the height based on the location of the Winchester Regional Airport. Now, if you factor that in with the construction guidelines associated with the Brimstone Tower height considerations to Poorhouse, you're very, very close to losing the ability to link any of your sites to the Poorhouse Tower in its current location. So with that in mind, I'd like for you guys to consider the physics behind the Poorhouse Tower location. The Poorhouse Tower, if you'll notice, it sits on the eastern side of Round Hill. This is Round Hill. And you'll note that it's completely absorbed by the hill. It is not tall enough to clear the hill. They can't do that because of the runway approach to Winchester Regional Airport. And that means that you're going to need to do a lot of work to get it to the top of the hill. So you're going to be limited to microwave lengths that can see Brimstone, Clearbrook, or Middletown. So we've discussed Brimstone. We've discussed Clearbrook being a height issue. And we discussed Middletown also being a height issue from a zoning perspective. So really, we're in a position where Poorhouse could very easily be turned into a limiting microwave solution. You can easily co-locate. This is a picture from the Fairfax County Great Falls Fire and Rescue. You can easily co-locate microwave, 5G, 5G+. UHF, a relay system to go tower to tower, and LTE all on the same tower. They are in different spectrum. They do not interfere with each other. They can be located at different heights. And you can provide the necessary coverage. So co-leasing and co-habitating a tower is entirely possible. We also have seen that Shenandoah County, just our neighbor right here to the south, has also put in a hybrid tower design. We're sharing a tower with the Cottonville location, or Cottontown, pardon me, location. And they went with a hybrid design because of their geographic similarity. Well, they went with a hybrid design, and they have a similar geographic configuration to us. So we shouldn't compare ourselves to someplace in Oklahoma or Michigan or something like that where you can put one tower in and you cover everybody because it's nice and flat. Shenandoah County has the same beautiful Shenandoah Valley that we're in. Do you know how much longer you're going to pay? I'm very nearly done, sir. In fact, I am done. I'm in backup content. So thank you very much for your time. I'm happy to answer any questions. Questions? I have several, Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. Do you feel there's adequate redundancy in the current plan? And if not, what would you say would be the redundancy that needs to get built into the system? That's the first question. And then how many additional towers, or do you believe additional towers need to be put in to make the system give us the coverage that we are seeking? From a redundancy perspective, I am concerned about the current placement of the microwave links, specifically the Port House Tower location. I do not believe... I believe that the survey team has currently done the math associated with... Or if they have done the math, they haven't taken into consideration the height of trees and other various things. I would be concerned about essentially the resiliency of the current tower microwave link configuration. In terms of adding towers, in order to get to the coverage, I would move... We would move... Cottontown provided an excellent location for us. We don't need something as close as Middletown. We would move back up to the Stephen City area, which would provide better Route 81 coverage. We would take an additional tower lease out of the Mount Pleasant region, and we would speak with Chantel about the Fairmount Tower, which would provide excellent coverage for the coverage gap up Appapai Ridge, as well as Winchester City. In order to meet the DAQ requirement of 3.4. And to that effect... Go ahead, sir. I'm sorry. Okay. These changes would give us, you believe, a full 95% coverage as the RFP requires? Yes, sir, I do. Excellent. No further questions, sir. Anybody else have any questions? Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. Is there a process... I believe I've heard talk of a process of considering this and taking it up with the administration and with the company and perhaps at our next meeting? Right. So we appreciate your comments, Patrines. And I think that we as a board have a contract. We're going to have to have them come back. They've listened to your comment. They can go and make their analysis and give us an update. I'd like to defer to the chair on him contacting TUSA. He should be here at the next meeting if he's not meeting after that. So if we have a public meeting here and if we need a private meeting, that all that is covered with the chairman being here. So, Mr. Chairman, we're fast getting toward the holidays. We're going to have to wait until the end of the year. We're going to have to wait until the end of the year. We only have one meeting a month. If this is delayed too long, what impact does that have on money being expended and towers being built? From what I understand, I'll defer to the administrator in a minute. We have the 90-day, 120-day time frame. So I don't think there's anything critical in the next 30 days that money is going to be spent or towers will be built. Having said that, Mr. Ballhofer, can you give us an update on that? An update on the fact of how much money is being spent if we wait and how long it would affect us? Just for the next 30 days to have TUSA. So Mr. Chairman, I'd ask that we direct Mr. Ballhofer to have our consultant from TUSA come give us a review or an update at our next meeting, which will be the first meeting in October. Once we have that information, we can decide if there needs to be a new meeting. If there needs to be a closed session meeting at the end of October to make changes to what we currently have in place, or if we are comfortable to continue to ride the contract as it is. But it would give us a very good, informed overview based upon what we had this evening and based upon what TUSA may present to us, what we are truly looking at, and it would allow us to make an informed decision. So I would ask kindly, it would be my prerogative, that we ask that TUSA come and present at our first meeting in October so that if we do need to have a closed session meeting, we can do so. And if we're comfortable after the first meeting in October or the meeting with TUSA, we can just continue. We can continue on with what we have in place. Mr. Weber, I ask you, would you be willing to defer, if necessary, to the second meeting? Because the chairman ought to be here for that closed session. But the closed session, sir, would be a minimum of a month off. So if TUSA came next meeting, that's two weeks from today. And if we decided that we needed a closed session, that would get us the end of October, which would be four weeks from today. I think that time frame allows us to stay out of the holiday period. It still allows time to work through this. And I'd have a significant... It's a significant delay in the project, as well as not cause us additional costs by, you know, having part of the project already built out and then needing to tear it down to change it. Mr. Chairman, do you have any comments or thoughts on that issue? No, that'll work. All right. Thank you. So is there consensus on that? I think we have a consensus that we'll do that for the first meeting in October. The TUSA will come, make a public presentation. We're based upon that in conversation with the chairman. And if there's a need for a closed session, we'll have that for the second meeting in October. Is that correct? That'll work. Okay, we're good. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Hayes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next item on is a discussion on guidelines on early voting in the Sunnyside polling place. The discussion is on Mr. Administrator. Yes, I kind of feel bad following broadband and radios, and I'm going to Skype sign. But such is life. As you know, this year is the first year we've moved our early voting out to Sunnyside. In the past, we had an extra early voting out there, but it was in a different building. There wasn't ground, so we really didn't have any issues with signs. So it's a new issue this year. We opened it up, and we had people putting signs out there. There were more than just the wire-type signs put in the ground, and they were very large, which from a staff, we didn't have a problem with at first. But we received. We received a significant amount of complaints, and these complaints continued to grow over the days. So we determined the fact that this was not a government area. We really own a commercial shopping center, and because of that fact, we decided we needed to make a determination of some sort of rules, because we actually had no rules of what was allowed. So we met with staff, myself, Rod, and a few other staff members, and we just made a decision that for the time being, we would set up a rule where we would only allow the general snipe signs. This is a general snipe sign. You've all seen. They're basically approximately 18 inches by 24 inches, and that's the determination we made in the short term. And we also decided what we would do is come back to this board, have this board determine the policy of what rules they wanted us to follow. There's some interesting things with us in making these decisions, because we're kind of an unusual situation here. One, we as a government own commercial property. So in effect, we're sort of like a commercial landowner owning these properties. So when we make decisions, we have to consider how does it affect our tenants in the shopping center and also the overall shopping center and neighboring businesses. And as a commercial shopping center, we don't think as much as like we're thinking as a government as if it were in front of the government building. Having said that, even though it's a commercial shopping center and we are still a government, so we still have the same hindrances or limitations placed upon us because of the First Amendment and the freedom of speech. So it makes it a little tricky. F cheering. And I think going back to the concept of DOWNCRAFT, the United States is slowly moving to the Northeast, and that's our only significant things. I know certain government agencies have put limitations on the signs. I believe in the election laws in a lot of places, they have laws in there that all signs must be removed by midnight. However, those laws are kind of antiquated. Those were the old laws when we didn't have early voting. And when everyone had one day to vote, they put the signs out and they wanted everyone to yank them. So those laws really haven't kept up with the way we vote these days with the 45 days of early voting. But we can establish times on when signs can be put in and when they have to be pulled out. We can also forbid off-site advertising. That is, we could say a business can't go in there, put up a sign, advertise in their business. That's at another address. The courts have allowed us to do that. And we can also forbid any indecency on the signs. There's a 1973 case which allows us to say you cannot put up anything that we would consider indecent, obviously a subjective. What we cannot do, and this is the big one in its famous case, is we cannot control or restrict the content. We have no right to go out there and tell people what they can put in on the signs. And we cannot restrict who puts up signs because, once again, you get into the free speech. Those are legal. This is not so much legal as it's difficult to enforce, is to restrict the number of signs. The difficulty in that is you'd have to have somebody out there see every single person put out a sign. You'd have to get their name, write down if they put a sign. And if a person wanted to, if you had somebody who wanted to put up 10 different signs, they'd have 10 different people to do it. So just logistically, we don't think that is something we can do. Currently, our interpretation on the rules, and I think this works for us for the time being, in case this, unless this board wants to change what they want to do, we're interpreting as we're allowing the basic snipe sign, which you see there, or similar type signs, because they're not all 18 or 24 inches. I'd also like to say, or no sign. That exceeds four square feet, so up to a two by two foot sign or such. Now that we would judge, we would not go out there and measure all the signs. We would wait by complaints. Our idea is not to have staff out there all the time with tape measures, but just use a good common sense judgment of that. What we could also do, whatever the board decides to do, the board can change those rules at any meeting. So if the board would at night say, we're going to do this type of rule, follow these rules, and if two weeks there are more issues, the board could always come back and say, we want to modify the rules. Because this is a private property, commercial property that the county owns, and the board is the policy maker for that. And if you could, just one other sign. I went out today, I did this blurry because I didn't want to be advertised for any candidates. You know, county administrators try to stay out of three things, elections, signs, and naming parks, and I do my best to do that. This was a picture from the polling at approximately 1.15, and this doesn't capture, there's some signs on side streets and in other areas, but this is, if you're looking at the polling place, this is what it looked like about 1.15. And here to answer any questions or provide any other comments. Any questions or comments for Mr. Bauhofer? Thank you for your comments, but I don't really understand exactly where you're going with that. We've talked a lot about signs, so where are we with signs? Well, where we are is, we're enforcing the rule now currently, following what I said, the SNIPE rule sign, where we're telling anyone that, pretty much we're limiting the signs to the 18 by 24 inch interpreted loosely. Tonight we're bringing it to the board to see if the board wants to continue with those, that interpretation, and us enforcing those rules, or if the board would like to establish different guidelines. And that's why I was given the idea of what you can do and cannot do. So if the board wanted to set time limits or if they wanted to just say no signs whatsoever. I got you. I apologize. I didn't do it. That's all right. It was a little confusing there in the get go. So right now you're enforcing the rule. Thank you. Thank you. You're enforcing the 18 by 24 sign. That's what you're saying. Correct. Would be appropriate. Yes. Okay. All right. Anybody else have any comments? I will. I have some comments, but they're not for the county administrator. Okay. Go ahead. All right. Sent someone out to look at the signs. I voted here recently, did early voting, and had somebody go out and count the signs that were there today at 4 p.m. just prior to tonight's meeting. There were over 140 signs presently on a small strip of land. It looked atrocious. Far from professional. There were signs on there that were very derogative, derogatory, and shouldn't have been on there. One of them was addressed to you, Mr. Dunn. It says, plain, dumb, red blood supervisor. I've heard that before, so welcome to the club. There are signs out there that are not political component signs. It is unrespectful. It's not in good taste or in good measure with what you would expect. With the candidates of signs, there was an organization that planted wooden posts into the ground out there and dug holes to plant it. If you hit the power line out there and you cut off the first day of voting, then what do you have? It's just been a complete renegade. It's been an open season for anything and anybody. I think that this board ought to reconvene after the election season sometime in January and write an ordinance on what is and is not allowable out there. I think that that's probably the best. I think that's probably the best portion going forward so that everyone has the same abilities to place signs and do the right thing. I think this season it would be most respectful to all candidates and all those who would desire to do so to pull all of the signs and simply say no signs on the premises, period. And any candidates or groups of candidates that would like to hand out literature, feel free to do so. That's an opportunity for you to have a meet and greet and talk to your residents and citizens who are voting. But the current sign situation out there has caused a lot of stress for our county attorney and our county administrator. I know that he's called several times. I've called several times because I've had a lot of complaints from people that have called and said, have you seen this sign? They've sent me a picture of it. It's been very derogatory, and I believe that since we cannot limit the content of what's on the signs, that we simply remove the signs from there in its entirety this voting, this election season, and ask that the board come up with a policy. So the ordinance committee for what those signs should look like next year, and that should be done on a new boarded season in January. So I'm going to make that as a motion that we as a board direct county administration to ask that all candidates remove their signs by the close of business tomorrow and that it remains sign free of candidate signs or any signs for the duration of the election season. And I make that as a motion. Is there a second? I'll second that. Could this be just at the location? You're talking early voting locations. Just at the early voting location, yes, sir. Discussion? If there's no discussion, I'd like to speak as the red-butt supervisor. The county owns the property. There are a number of businesses there as well. At least from my perspective, I'd like to see if this could be delayed until our next meeting. I'd like to go out and take a look. I'd like to have everybody here have the opportunity to think about whether you want to pull them all now or pull them all in two weeks. And so I'm probably going to say no to this if it's for tomorrow and wait two weeks and see what's there. I do think that we ought to have signs that are only 18 by 24 inches. I know there's a lot of signs there. Derogatory signs are unfortunately part of the political landscape. I've had that, but that's fine. The signs that Mr. Ballhopper showed were a mess from my perspective. I'd like to be able to speak to the business owners there and see if that affects them or not. And so I look for a delay, but we'll see what happens. Mr. Chairman, if I may. Sure. Just a couple things. I know there are more signs coming. I've had other folks call and say, well, if they can put a sign, I can put a sign. And I just do not see how this gets any better. I think that it's better that we nip this in the bud, we fix it, and we go forward and have a respectable election. And so it would be my strongest urgent message to you is let's nip this in the bud. Let's fix it. It's one location. We're not saying this all across the county. And let's have a good, clean election. Anybody else have any comments? I do. Mr. Chairman? What makes it different than any other voting precinct? Mr. Chairman, Chairman DeHaven, if I may. Yes. So this is county-owned property. The other precincts are either schools, which is school-maintained and or owned property, or some other precincts. I guess we only use schools and firehouses. Some of it is privately. The county-owned property being the firehouses. If you wanted to use one day and have all the derogatory signs, I guess that's your prerogative. I guess the school system would have the opportunity to allow that or disallow that, being they are in control of the school-owned properties. But this is county-owned property. And that's why I believe it's a long-duration thing. I think it needs to be cleaned up. I think it needs to be fixed. And this is a way to do so in a professional manner and allow for there to be a good, clean election, in my opinion. And not have a lot of derogatory statements. I could write a lot of derogatory statements on a piece of board and put it out there and nobody can remove it. And it's not becoming of the system. Well, it's obvious that when the legislature designed and thought and adopted pre-voting, they did not really think it through clearly long-term. But it's still a voting... It's still a voting precinct. There ought to be some continuity to that. It's all I'm suggesting. Mr. Chairman. So we've all voted many times before, everywhere I've ever voted. I can't recall issue advocacy or personal signs. I don't know what makes our county different. But there seems to be a race on, maybe because it's the first time that we have early voting. And now we're... We're not in the city. We're in our own space. So my initial take, and I think that of the county attorney, was that we can't and shouldn't restrict anything because of free speech. And then as we dug into it further, different people have begun finding that counties do do different things. I believe Clark County has banned signs altogether. I haven't asked them what led them to that conclusion. And the government does allow time, place, and manner restrictions. And I don't know if it would allow us ultimately to write an ordinance that says only official signs that are properly registered and that we know where all the money is coming from, if we could restrict that or not, or whether that would in the end jump across free speech. I think that Mr. Williams can answer that question. That would appear to be a content-based restriction. I mean, how one would make those distinctions without looking behind it seems extraordinarily difficult. A sign is a sign is a sign. Now, there is also in laws in different counties and states, they weigh these time, manner, place restrictions, so they're not absolute rules. There is also a very important rule in the weighting, and that is the purpose. And that is the purpose of the government's purpose in running the site. In other words, when you have an election, if it's been decided that it's extremely important that candidates need to be able to advertise so that voters have information, then you can actually, ironically, defeat that if it's complete mayhem. If we end up with a thousand signs on that narrow strip of grass there, no one will be able to read anything. There's already been jockeying of sign placement, and things block each other already now. There are so many signs there. So I fear if the enthusiasm remains as high as it is, pro and con, that it's just going to be an embarrassing mess, and we really do want to have everyone be able to say what they want to say, but within reasonable parameters in the long run. So I would recommend, I think I would support Mr. Graber's... proposal because we could also revisit it in two weeks. If we had things removed and we decided that that didn't look appropriate either, then you could always visit that tomorrow and see how it is currently, and then we could revisit it and make a new decision to allow them back on the premises. So either way, I think we can get to the right position. Thank you, Mr. Lubbock. Anybody else? Mr. Chair. Mr. Wells. And I kind of agree with the revisits. I'm not sure if you're visiting it, but I think I would prefer to have the opportunity. I haven't even been out there, so I don't know. I haven't seen it. I saw the pictures. I've seen some of the other pictures. And I don't think it's the candidates. I don't really think it's that. I think it's people who are supporting the candidates or just doing mean stuff. You know, we have those. That is part of it. I'd like for us to postpone this. Until the next meeting, if we could. That's just me. Give me an opportunity to talk with our lawyer, with Rod, and also with our staff here to see what the implications are, just to think it through before we. I know they're going to stay there. I know it's not going to be pretty, but I think we could wait just one more time and do that. I just feel we'd be better served to do it. That way, rather than take them down and then come back to revisit. So right now, we have a motion on the floor. We do. And so if you want to make that as an amendment. I'm not amending. I'm just. Just comments. As the Redbud supervisor, I'm inclined to wait for the two weeks. We'll just agree to disagree. We can have a vote on your motion. If that fails, then I'm going to suggest we come back in two weeks. And then we address the issue. If it passes, then so be it. Mr. Chairman, I think we also, regardless of whether this passes or fails, need to give the county administrator and the county attorney a little direction on if we agree with that sign is where we are or where we need to be with this. Can I speak for a minute? I believe this is a huge waste of time for our county employees to be going out there and monitoring. And I'm good. I'm ready to vote. All right. I support this. Aye. The motion for Mr. Graber is to go and remove all signs by close of business tomorrow. And that's the motion. Yep. That's fine. Aye. Mr. Graber, is that correct? That is correct. All right. Now, Ms. Lockridge. Aye. Sorry. I apologize. Mr. Ludwig. Aye. Mrs. Slaughter. I'd like to wait for two weeks. Okay. Mr. Wells. I'm the same way. So I'll vote no. Okay. Again, I need to do a little bit further study. Mr. Graber. I'm going to vote aye, but I have a question. Did Ms. Slaughter recuse herself? She voted no. Thank you. I vote aye. Mrs. Lockridge. Aye. Mr. Dunn votes no. Mr. DeHaven. No. I believe they're four no's, so it fails. So is it my understanding we're going to continue? I mean, we have to come up with some. We're going to. Okay. So therefore, for this failing, I'd like to suggest that to give the county administrator and the attorney some guidance, that no signs greater than two feet by two feet, that's what this is, or 18 by 24 inches, be there for now. That gives them some guidance that they need to enforce it, and then we come back and address this issue in two weeks. Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. I want to make it clear that I support their decision, and we ought to add to that, two groups came and put four by four structures well into the ground, and they could have struck a utility and caused a problem with early voting. There was no misutility markings out there, and then people responded with four by four signs driving metal posts into the ground, so I would say you would think two by two would be clear, or yard signs clear enough instruction, but they shouldn't be on anything more than... What's the phrase, Mr. Ballhofer, you used? Without some limit, somebody's going to put in a 10-foot tall post again to put their 2x2 sign on. I can just see it coming. So let's say as a consensus, do we have a consensus to give to the administrator and to the category of signs no larger than 18x24 inches or approximately there, but approximately like 1 inch either way? I'm not talking about feet. Is that enough guidance? And of the snipe sign format. Of the snipe sign format, that's fine. Then there's a consensus. Mr. Administrator, then you have what you need? Yes, with one clarification, we're going to go with also the 18x24 or similar type signs, not to exceed 4 square feet because sometimes they're not always exactly 18x24. Okay, that's fine. Anything else on this? Okay, we're finished. Next item on the agenda is a ban on open-air burning. Mr. Graber, you would ask to move it to... Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, sir. Go ahead. So 6-1 was a resolution to ratify a declaration of emergency ban on open burning by the Fire Marshal's Office. I appreciate the Fire Marshal's instituting this on September the 5th. We were in the series of a drought where I live in the Back Creek District. We had had less than an inch of rain over the preceding three and a half months, and it was a tinderbox. Since then, we've received 5.5. 5 inches of rain. Farmers and other folks that are clearing fields, getting things together, that are trying to get things ready to burn as soon as the EPA lifts the burn ban in the area for October the 1st. I don't see that there is a need to continue the burn ban with the rain that we've received, so therefore I would like to discontinue or pull the burn ban that has been placed in effect since September the 5th and have it null and void. That is my motion. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Discussion? Discussion? If there's no discussion, then we'll vote. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. And it passes. Okay. That takes care of that. Next item is appointments to the boards, committees, and commissions. Social Services Board in Opec and Mr. Wells? Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. I would like to put forth the name of Janet Clark to fill the vacant four-year term that now exists on the Social Services Board. Janet has filled out the application that's been given out to the board, so I would so move. Okay. Is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. Discussion? I'll just make one as a supervisor. I think Janet Clark would be excellent. Thank you. So, Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mrs. Ludwig? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. And it passes. There's now a Board of Zoning Appeals in Shawnee. Mr. Ludwig? Mr. Chairman, this position has been vacant for a long time, many months, maybe a year. We finally found an excellent candidate to stand up and fill. This role for the county. So I support the appointment of Delores Stottlemyer to this position. We, of course, have her information as required. Second. Again, Mrs. Stottlemyer will do a good job in my opinion. Any other discussion? Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. Aye. With a clarification, we are asking the judge to make that. That's correct. Thank you. Point well taken, Mr. DeHaven. Next item is Regional Jail Authority, Federal County Representative. Mr. Tibbs is eligible to be reappointed if there's interest in doing so. Mr. Chairman, I would move for the reappointment of Mr. Tibbs to the Regional Jail Authority. Second. Second. Discussion? Okay. No vote. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? No. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. And that passes. We now have Committee Business from the Finance Committee. This is going to take a while. Can you give me a second, Mrs. Slaughter? Yes, indeed. So we will have about 20 items to go through here. Take them one at a time. Having said that, Mrs. Slaughter, go ahead. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. The Finance Committee met on August the 16th at 8 a.m. The first item of business was the Commissioner of Revenue request an FY2024 General Fund Supplemental Appropriation in the amount of $20,500. And I would so move. Is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. Discussion? In that case, Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. The vote is aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. And that passes. Next item of business was the Department of Social Services requested a fiscal year 2024 General Fund Supplemental Appropriation in the amount of $16,000. And I would so move. The next item of business was the Department of Social Services requested a fiscal year 2024 General Fund Supplemental Appropriation in the amount of $16,443. This amount represents an auto claim and will be used towards the cost of a replacement vehicle. No local funds are required. The Committee recommends approval. And I would so move. Is there a second? Second. Discussion? Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. The vote is aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. Motion passes. Next item, the Fire and Rescue Chief requested a fiscal year 2023 General Fund Supplemental Appropriation in the amount of $10,673.08. This amount represents an insurance auto claim and was used for repairs. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval. And I would so move. Second. Discussion? No discussion. Mr. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Gosselin? Aye. Mr. Gosselin? Aye. Mr. Gosselin? Aye. Mr. Gosselin? Aye. Mr. Gosselin? Aye. Mr. Gosselin? Aye. Mr. shuffle? Aye. Mr. Gosselin? Aye. Mr. McCabe? Aye. Mr. Weber? Aye. Mr.уйber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mr. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. The vote is aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Motion passes. Next item, the Fire and Rescue Chief requested a fiscal year 2024 General Fund Revenue Appropriation in the amount of $75,000 and an expenditure appropriation in the amount of $17,132.50. These amounts represent a carry forward from Ferey to Conell and Conell to Bates. fiscal year 2023 for the VDEM state homeland security grant. No local funds required. The finance committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Dunn-Botz? Aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. The motion passes. Next item, the EMS billing manager request of fiscal year 2023 EMS expense recovery fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $412,989. This amount represents revenue collected in excess of budgeted revenue. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Discussion? Hearing none. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mr. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Dunn-Botz? Aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. The motion passes. The Stephen City Volunteer Fire and Rescue Company request a fiscal year 2024 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $249,000. This amount represents available proffer funds to be used toward the purchase of an ambulance and the tower truck. Both items are in the county's CIP. No local funds required. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Discussion? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. This is an ax to grind with me. I really believe that the money is going towards good needs. The tower that it is replacing is very old. It does need to be replaced. The ambulance there is one of the busiest ambulance houses in the county. However, we have far more equipment than we have personnel to manage it at the present time as far as there's been several studies, several things that have been looked at. There's multiples of equipment versus significant needs as far as personnel goes. We should be moving as a locality, as I've spoken many times, of localities such as ours. And if you look at other localities of similar size, Rockingham being one of them, they are beginning the process of purchasing their own apparatus and having a replacement schedule and a centralized maintenance facility. We are presently and have been and still do with this appropriation, giving money to the volunteer agencies to buy this apparatus, not saying that they're doing a bad job. It's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is, is if you look at many of the stations, there's multiples of apparatus in the station with no one there to man it. The county should be, should have an active program on how to purchase and replenish apparatus, which we currently don't have. And so there needs to be significant progress done in this arena before we continue to throw more money at it. So for that reason, I cannot support this motion. Thank you. Okay. Any other comments? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Graber? No. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Sign votes aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. The motion passes. The Clearbrook Volunteer Fire and Rescue Company requests a fiscal year 2024 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $50,000. This amount represents available profit funds to be used for the apron replacement at the station. This item is on the county CIP. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Discussion? Hearing none. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Sign votes aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. All those in favor? Aye. of ammo and will be used to purchase a different type of ammo. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Discussion? Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. I apologize. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. The motion passes. The Finance Director requests a fiscal year 2024 NRA-DC fund budget reduction in the amount of $250,312 and a general fund budget reduction in the amount of $112,737. This amount represents the decrease of the total budget due to the change in the COLA percentage approved by the Board of Supervisors and the corresponding local portion decrease. The Finance Committee recommends approval. And I would so move. Second. Discussion? Hearing none, Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. None votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Motion carries. Motion carries. Next item. The Parks and Recreation Director requests a fiscal year 2023 general fund supplemental appropriation of $2,850 and a fiscal year 2023 NRA-DC fund budget reduction in the amount of $250. This is a fiscal year 2024 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $900. These amounts represent donations for the purchases of park benches. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval. And I would so move. Second. Discussion? Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. None votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Motion passes. Second. The Parks and Recreation Director requests a fiscal year 2024 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $4,430. This amount represents a donation for the purchase of permanent story walk boards along the trail at the Bowman Library. The additional local funds required have been budgeted. The Finance Committee recommends approval. And I would so move. Second. Discussion? Hearing none. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? No. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. None votes aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. Motion passes. The Parks and Recreation Director requests a fiscal year 2024 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $1,040,686.50. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year 2023 funds. For the eight budget at theaced in full stadium of Fort 물well for the first year 2020 costs and산pilot today was on December 19. The only program selector of this year, the high school is on April 21 Muston passes the parks and recreation directory quest a fiscal year 2021 general fund supplemental approbations in the amount of $4,430. but most of the projects will return to work in the upskilling style parking. fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $130,509.50. This amount represents a carry-forward of unspent fiscal year 2023 funds for the pickleball courts and field leveling at Sharando Park. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Is there a second? Second. Discussion? Hearing none, Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? No. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Motion passes. The Sheriff requests a fiscal year 2024 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $2,989.95. This amount represents an auto insurance claim and will be used for repairs. No local funds are required. The Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Discussion? Hearing none, Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Motion passes. The Sheriff requests a fiscal year 2023 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $9,116.48. This amount represents reimbursement from the Drug Enforcement Administration to be used for overtime. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval. And I would so move. Second. Discussion? Hearing none, Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Motion passes. The Sheriff requests a fiscal year 2023 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $1,752. And a fiscal year 2024 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $1,752. The House of Representatives has a motion to approve the proposed fiscal year 2023 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $7,500. These amounts represent donations and will be used toward the building at the impound lot. The House of Representatives has a motion to approve the proposed fiscal year 2023 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $10,000. This amount represents funds from the HEAT grant and will be used to purchase three license plate readers. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. Discussion? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. I have some discussion on this item. I cannot support this item for a platitude of reasons. The first one is I believe this is a major invasion of your privacy. The license plate readers will let you know exactly who that person is in that vehicle as you're passing by. You have done nothing wrong to have your license plate pop up on the computer of that trooper's car. This is an absolute overreach of the government. This should not be permitted in any jurisdiction in Virginia. Why it is Virginia law to permit it, I do not know. Law enforcement will advocate that it is an opportunity for them to catch wanted individuals, and I understand that. And I can support that. However, it is a major invasion into privacy of a residence, and it should not be passed under any circumstance. Therefore, I cannot support this under any provision provided. Thank you. Any other discussion? Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. So I agree with Supervisor Graber. These devices are or can be an invasion of privacy, despite the fact that they also have a good purpose. And therefore, I can't support this either. Thank you. Okay. Any other comments? Hearing none, Mrs. Lockridge? No. Mr. Graber? No. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? No. Done votes no. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Motion fails. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Yes. Let's see. Where are we here? Give me just a minute, please. That's fine. All right. Next page. The Sheriff requests a fiscal year 2024 general fund revenue appropriation in the amount of $53,628. This amount represents state funds to be received for an SRO. The local portion of the grant is $4.7 million. The total amount is $37,903, which was budgeted. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Second discussion? Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, I have some questions regarding this, and maybe our finance folks, I didn't see them in the room tonight, could answer this. I am fully for seeing the state funds to get an additional school resource officer. I'd just like to know a couple things surrounding it. How many years does the grant cover? What would be our portion to pick up when it does not, is no longer available? And if it does, how long does it take to get it approved? Mr. DeHaven? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You may want to repeat the question. We have a question from Mr. Graber. Mr. Graber. We're covering it. Does anyone know the answers to those questions? How long is the grant for? What percentage does the grant cover? Those types of things? Dr. Mr. Graber, yes. And Mrs. Kipler is here. The grant was for one year. Correct, Mrs. Kipler? And after that, then it would come to the county in the regular budget process. Okay. I just didn't see in the paperwork. I looked. Maybe I overlooked it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any other comments or questions? So, Mr. Chairman, is the addition of this, of an SRO officer, part of our plan? outside of the grant, or is it purely something we're doing because we got this grant? I don't know what our budget constraints are for the years after this next one. I think we have, I'll defer to Mr. Slaughter in a second. I know that we have the money for this year. We have the excess money to do that, to come up as an extra item. I believe that the schools are short three SROs among them, and this is to help fill that need. Mr. Chairman, so short meaning we don't have, we haven't budgeted enough to have an SRO at every school, or short meaning we have three vacancies right now? Short meaning we have three vacancies. So we can take advantage of this grant, and it would fill a vacancy. It doesn't commit us then, because we wouldn't be overstaffed. That's correct. Okay, thank you. Mrs. Slaughter, do you have anything else? No, I think you addressed that very nicely. Anything else? In that case, we'll take a vote on this. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. None votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Motion passes. The Sheriff requests a fiscal year 2023 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $19,320. This amount represents reimbursements for traffic control to be used toward overtime. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Discussion? Hearing none. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. None votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Motion passes. The Deputy County Administrator requests a fiscal year 2024 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $1,423. This amount represents a carry-forward of unspent fiscal year 2023 funds for a steel plate at the Millwood Fire Station. The Finance Committee recommends that. Second. Discussion? Yes, sir. Mr. Graber? This brings a much broader point that I will not go labor or recede tonight as we're running late in the tooth as it is. However, we agreed with the volunteer system that we would do a 50-50 split of the ambulance recovery money. At that time, the stations were owned by the volunteers. We are presently the owners of several stations now within the county. We are exhibiting a lot of money. lot of money to maintain these stations and that process needs to be revisited. I've asked for that to be done for the last four years. I've been laughed out of the house. It's far past time that we revisit our spending or appropriations of revenue recovery money so that we can cover those expenses at our fire stations, this being one of them. Thank you. Any other comments? My comment is being liaison to fire and rescue for a number of years. I think we are starting to have 11 stations start to work together as a team. I think that's important. I'll support this, but I think we need to continue to do that. Mr. Graber. Having said that, no other discussion? Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Motion passes. The Deputy County Administrator requests a fiscal year 2024 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $7,851. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year 2023 funds for cabinets at Round Hill Fire Station. The Finance Committee recommends approval and I would so move. Is there a second? Second. Alright. Discussion? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. I have a hard time understanding why we need cabinets for this fire station. The fire station is practically brand new. It's not more than about three years old or four years old in operation. I haven't gotten good clear justification of this. The Deputy County Administrator sent a one-page piece of paper that had three items on it. Simply stated that they had already been ordered. It didn't state where they were going, what their purpose was, or why we needed them with the station being relatively brand new. So I would be open to hearing any conversation from the Deputy County Administrator as to where these things are going and why they're needed with it being a relatively new building. My understanding from the career staff at Round Hill and from our maintenance supervisor, these are kitchen cabinets that will go into the kitchen. They're large. Pantry-type cabinets for food storage. And they've been requested by the company, I think, for the last three or four years in the budget. Is there no cabinets there presently? There are some cabinets there. My understanding is they're not adequate to hold what needs to be held in the kitchen. Very well. I would simply say it appears that this has already been ordered, so I don't know how we can cancel an order if we were not to pass this resolution tonight, so I would kindly direct staff. Not to order things until we have approved them. But I will support this begrudgingly. Thank you. Any other comments? Is the new door a replacement? Because a broken door, are we putting in a new entrance? Which item? I'm sorry. It says... 10U. We're on 10U. That's a new door, a new access to a room. Okay. Okay. No other comments? Mr. Lockridge? Ms. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Ms. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Motion passes. The Deputy County Administrator requests a fiscal year 2024 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $2,410. This amount represents a carry-forward of unspent fiscal year 2023 funds for the new door, and the wellness room. The Finance Committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Discussion? Hearing none. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Ms. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Ms. Graber? No. Ms. Lockridge? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Motion passes. And the last item, Chairman Dunn, is the Finance Audit Committee, Charter adopted by the Board of Supervisors, requires an annual review and reassessment. The Finance Committee, or the Audit Committee, recommended no changes to the Charter, and authorizes the Finance Committee Chair to sign audit engagements, and I would so move. Second. Discussion? Hearing none. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Mr. Leab? Aye. Motion passes. That takes care of those issues. Thank you very much, Mrs. Slaughter. We appreciate your help. Thank you. We're now going to have a public hearing. The first item is a proposed boundary line adjustment with the Town and Middletown. Mr. Pearson? Thank you, Mr. Vice Chairman, members of the Board of Supervisors. I'm glad that you could get through some of the more plain items. I'm ready to enthrall you, as my staff is as well, with planning business. So two items before you tonight as it relates to Middletown. The first action item is an update to the joint agreement for the administration of proffers. In short, that is an agreement that we have had since 2005 with Middletown, where they can accept cash proffers on our behalf for the benefit of Frederick County Schools and other services that we provide to the residents of the Town of Middletown. It is typical for us to update that at the same time as we are considering any adjustments to the boundary line, and it will expire in 2025. The second action item on your agenda is a request from the Town of Middletown to adjust the boundary line between us and them. So the properties are just south of the Town of Middletown on either side of US Route 11. If you look to the screen to your left, there is some right-of-way encompassed for US Route 11. If you're driving down 11 to the south heading towards Charlesburg, you're coming up on Bell Grove here on the right, the other property that's included is owned by PH Real Estate, it's outlined in blue there, and that is included to keep the adjustment contiguous to the existing town boundary, which is shown in gray. And then Schaefer's Barbecue is the other parcel that is proposed to be brought into town limits. This is an exhibit plat prepared by the Town of Middletown to demonstrate this. This would be forwarded along with the proposal for the circuit court's consideration. And on May 10th, the board authorized a public hearing on this matter. Middletown Town Council had a public hearing on August 14th and resolved to adjust the boundary line as described. If the board so feels it's appropriate, staff is seeking action on a resolution that would authorize the county to join the town in petitioning the circuit court to approve the requested boundary line adjustment. I'm happy to answer any questions on the proposal. Do we have any questions for Mr. Go ahead. Questions for? I'd just like to thank you. I don't want to ask you any more questions. You and I have talked many times about this. I appreciate the efforts that you've put forth with Mayor Harbaugh. I know this has been a two-year project. I know that there's been a lot of questions, a lot of back and forth. I appreciate the patience that your staff has exhibited and I appreciate the efforts that it's taken to get to this point. Thank you. Anything else? This is a public, no, it's non-public hearing. It is a public hearing. It's a public hearing. So having said that, we have anybody who wants to address this issue? Certainly, I want to let you, remind you that you received one electronic comment and we also have Matt Schaefer signed up to speak at the public hearing. Okay. Thank you so much for listening. I appreciate the work that you're doing. And thank you for being here. I appreciate the support that you're providing. There's a lot of information to be shared and I know it's a little hard to get through but I think it will be helpful. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Good evening. Thank you for the opportunity to speak before you. I am here, as we discussed back in May, to ask for you to vote in favor of the proposed boundary line adjustment. As Mr. Pearson described, it would bring my business and the property on which it sits into town. Two reasons I think are important to support. this one is that my business is supported mainly by the the residents of Middletown and I would like to be a part of that town but also as a small business owner who is recently connected to the sewer system which Middletown administers this would cut my sewer rates in half by being a member of the town versus being in the county so again I ask that you please support this boundary line adjustment thank you thank you anybody else wants to address this issue hearing none mr. chairman I'd like to say two items before I make a motion first item is by mr. Schaefer's restaurant being able to be connected to town water and sewer is allowed him or will allow him to expand his business significantly to provide a service to the community that the community has participated in for many years and is actively supported and I would support that mission in small businesses particularly in our County in this difficult environment so as such I'd like to make the first action item motion that we approve the updated joint agreement for administration of properties and make that as a motion as presented second discussion then as a red-butt supervisor I would like to make some comments on this generally I'm not in favor of readjusting County boundaries and we had a discussion on this with Warren County some time ago I'm gonna support mr. Schaefer's request for one primary reason that is the state of Virginia gave him some information was totally inaccurate after he made a purchase and went into business they then said sorry you cannot expand your business when he made a purchase expecting to be able to do certain things and Virginia said no so the General Assembly needs to tell landowners what they can and can't do and not change the facts afterwards for that reason I'll support it but I think that this is a policy where the county just should not readjust boundaries willy-nilly so because the state made a mistake also made a mistake I'll support that. Mr. Schaefer to put you in good stead. Anyone else have any comments? Mr. Chairman this is not for the boundary line adjustment this this first action item is simply the proffers here my friend. I understand that. I'm not trying to. This is this is just general comments here. Yes sir. Call for the question. Okay. Mr. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. If none votes aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. Mr. Schaefer? Aye. Motion passes. Mr. Chairman? Go ahead. I don't believe we need to have a special public hearing on this I want to make an action item here that we approve the boundary line adjustment agreement as presented. Make that as a motion. Discussion? Anybody else have any comments? Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. If none votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Mr. Brown? Aye. Motion passes. Next item is a public hearing on a conditional use permit 08-23 for Mrs. Lambert. Does the staff have a... Welcome. Thank you Mr. Chairman and members of the board. This conditional use permit application is for a dog kennel and breeding facility. The property is located at 1900 Bruce Town Road in the Stonewall Magisterial District and is zoned RA. This location map shows the property outlined in blue. It's located south off of Bruce Town Road in the eastern part of the county. The applicant proposes the following. They propose building a kennel facility on the west side of Bruce Town Road. The kennel facility on the west side of Bruce Town Road is located on the west side of Bruce Town Road and on the western portion of their property and a maximum of 10 litters per year and a maximum of 12 adult dogs on the property at any given time. These are in yellow because the applicant has changed the proposal from the time that this was presented to the planning commission and from the time of initial application. So, that's why these figures are different from what was in your agenda packet and from what the planning commission saw. Thank you. Oh! Furthermore, customers would visit the site by appointment only on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays, not to exceed five families per day visiting. And only members of the family would be helping with the kennel. There would be no other outside employees. The zoning ordinance defines a kennel as a place to house, board, breed, handle, or otherwise care for dogs for sale or in return for compensation. A kennel is an allowed use in the rural area zoning district with an approved CUP. And this property is also located within the Clearbrook and Brewstown Rural Community Center, for which the comprehensive plan encourages a mix of residential, commercial, and business uses. A Category C buffer is required to screen the kennel facility according to the additional regulations for specific uses in the ordinance. Staff has visited. The site and observed mature woodlands consisting of evergreens and deciduous trees and shrubs. A 50-foot strip of mature woodlands may be allowed as a full screen. And this vegetation satisfies the buffer requirement to the northwest and to the south. Approximately 350 feet of space from the proposed kennel location to the property line to the east, as well as a six-foot tall opaque fence satisfy the buffer requirement to the east. The season plans may surrender, depends on the rabble, and at any date should be announced. The break to the CUP bottom woman comments about providing new A class 好. F rejoice. It's a new condition that the applicant has proposed, and this was not in the agenda packet. But no more than 12 adult dogs shall be on the property at any given time. Number five, any new structures to be used as kennels would require building permits prior to being constructed. Continuing on, one monument-style sign with a maximum sign area not to exceed 50 square feet and four feet in height would be permitted with the CUP. An illustrative sketch plan meeting all of the additional regulations for specific uses. That would be the buffers and that sort of thing must be submitted to and approved the county prior to establishing this use. And then any expansion or modification of this use would require a new CUP. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item on September 6th and recommended denial. Following a public hearing tonight, staff is seeking a decision by the board on this CUP. That's it for the presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions. The applicant, Mrs. Lambert, is also here to answer any questions. And she has prepared a brief PowerPoint presentation that she would like to share with you all if given the chance. Staff of board members, do you have any questions for staff? I had a question. What breed of dog are we talking? I would defer that one to that one the applicant speaks, but I think it's mainly poodles. Okay. And are they AKC? I know we've had this before us and I just want to make sure. Anyways, I guess she can answer. Yeah, yeah. Okay. I think it's better to answer that. Let her speak. Mr. Chair. One question is. This is the first time I've heard this. This is new information for us. Can you tell us what the numbers were that the planning commission had? I believe they were much higher. Yes. The numbers for the planning commission that were written on the original application was a maximum of 50 dogs at any one time on the property and a maximum of two litters per month, which would be 24 litters per year. So the numbers have been significantly reduced. Thank you. Do you have a question? Yes. Thank you. Do you see any record from the county or the sheriff's department of complaints or violations? Because I believe this property has been operating with animals for quite some time. Yes. It has been operating. In terms of the planning and zoning department, we have not issued a letter of violation because the applicant was already trying to work towards the conditional use permit process. In terms of the animal control department, they have been. Okay. They have been out there because they received calls of worried neighbors that just wanted to make sure everything was okay. I have contacted animal control. They have been out there as recently as the end of August and determined that all of the animals looked well taken care of, had adequate food, water, and space, and that was their latest report. Okay. Anything else? Thank you very much. Does the applicant have anything that she wants to add? No. Okay. No. Thank you. Good evening to the board. May I distribute this to you? Give them to Mrs. Phillips and she'll pass them back to us. Thank you. I don't know how to use this. Good evening to the board. The reason that I— Let her set up. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. I have a question. I have a question. And just give me a minute so that we can have these and then we'll follow along with you. Thank you Are you gonna hand those out to us? Oh, yes Sure Okay, go ahead Okay, go ahead yes, um, this is the layout of the property right here and originally I had requested 50 dogs and Literally, I really did it because I didn't want to come back to these if these ever became to grow You know, I started very small on another County like with one litter and Then it just grew rapidly to where it really took me seven years I just moved to this County towards the end of last year and I've been Since trying to get everything to together to get things approved so Then Took me seven years to really get to eight female dogs Active breeding dogs and then three males So I figure it'll take me another seven years to get to 14 and another so basically probably be a lifetime before I ever got to 50 but I just I Went through so much to get all of these to be here today that I just thought of going through it in my mind Was just like okay Let me just do 52 to be safe ever but not that I will have 50 dogs right now in my mind So that just want to clear that up, but I know that in the last hearing There was just one neighbors out here the couple over there were to the right front of Bruce down Road and they brought up a concern of traffic If you see that the driveway they have Direct access to the road from their home with no need to use my driveway and That is a barn where they access and they can actually access the barn from within their home The only one that really shares with me is mine is 1902 that we share the driver together And he has since I moved there. I told him this is why I'm moving here. Do you have any problems with me? Having the dog kennel here? and he said, not at all. He said, you do what you want to do with your property, and that's really why I bought the home here. So, and he said, when he received the letter, Kevin said, Genizel, I'm not showing up to the county, because this is your property, you do what you want, and he will be the one that will be closer to me. And so that's, you know, the one concern. The second concern, they said it was the noise of the dogs. Our dogs are fully trained to where only if they hear someone around that they don't know, they will be barking. Other than that, they're fully trained not to do that, and this neighbor is about almost 1,000 feet from where I want to put the dogs at. So, you know, then, also, you know, when Mike Cheran from the, you know, the administration of zoning came to the site, he said, you have ample space, even to your left neighbor, so much space, and all of the privacy that you have here is just great. I don't know if this is, am I doing this, oh. I'm sorry, I'm not good with these things. Oh, thank you so much. Oh, the down one, I was going up, I'm sorry. All right, thank you. So, if you see to the bottom of my property, that's a huge cattle farm that has over 100 cows in there every day, so there's nothing really there at all, and to the right, there's so much trees and pine trees that he said, this is perfect for what you want to do. So, then, there was nothing there, as you can see, there was nothing, so I have done so much work to really contain the animals and fence, that it has been a big journey for me, because I was new to farm life, I always lived in the city, so I have learned a lot the hard way, you know, I'm not going to say that I did everything correct, like as far as the farm animals, we got very happy that we could now have farm animals and livestock, and then I just learned a lot throughout the way, where, you know, some animals would escape, and then we're like, oh my gosh. So, I started, I finally finished, two weeks ago, finally finished that privacy fence there to my left neighbor, eight feet, and then the bottom, what you see at the bottom, that country fence goes along the whole entire width of the property, and behind that fence is where we have the livestock, about eight goats, and, you know, some chickens, and things like that. So, they're all contained now, fully contained under the, behind there, and I also have, you see the country fence to the left, to reinforce so the goats would not go through, and the chickens, we have put steel, metal, steel panels across there, and then to the, this is to the east side and to the west side, this is all behind the trees where I intend to put the kennel. I have also put the seven foot fence, welded fence there, and it's reinforcing a three row barbed wire, just to make sure that the animals stay inside our property. And then this is what I envision for the dogs, because to me, it's not a transaction, or just to make money. To me, I want, it's a quality living for them. So, I envision, I have a vision, and it's always being to build something like this, similar to this, so that it'll be like a very nice living space, and feels like a luxurious place for them to live at. This is being, this has been my dream for a while, for them, because I really love them, and I want the best for them, and for families that are coming to get the puppies. And this is just, you know, some of our females, and some of the dogs that we have produced, and you know, as you can see, we have about 48 Google reviews, all five stars, you know, families that really love the way that we conduct business with the puppies, and you know, the way that it's just not a transaction, it's just, it's a family long journey to where they always send me pictures on how their puppies are doing. And I pass out to you so you can see just a few, I just chose like a few of the reviews to where families really say, you know, it's an important, you know, as important as this is, it took me months trying to find a reliable or a breeder that was reliable, and this one says we spent over one year trying to find a reliable breeder, and then we found you. And then one says after searching, you know, for the kind of a reputable breeder for a year, for months, and one was for years, so there's so many families out there that's really wanting someone that really cares about this, and not just do it just, you know, for the heck of it or for money, without caring about their animals. We are a KC register. We're a KC register. We're a KC register. We're a KC register. Our dogs are a KC registered, and we had our oldest dog, we just retired her, and in her lifestyle, she had six liters total, and their maximum that they actually suggest is 11, since she retired with six liters. All of my dogs have been genetic tested, so over 200 different conditions, and they're all clear from everything. We provide a one-year guarantee on health. Anything that happens to their dog or anything, we will always support it. And even if I didn't have any writing, it is my ethic that I will always, because I'm a person too, I will always put myself in somebody's shoes, even if it's at my own expense. Every puppy socialized, spent, you know, three to four times a day with kids and family, getting, you know, socialized. So when they do go to their families, they're called, they're called and already being used to being around kids and socialization. In my agreement to the families, they're not allowed to place any of our dogs in a shelter. They have to return them back to us. And in seven years, I can say that I can count with my hands, the families has returned the puppies to us, and I've been able to place them within two weeks to another family. And. And then I gave you another, just, just, I just talked to, like 11 of the clients that said that they would be willing to serve as a reference. And, you know, we had, we have families come flying from Puerto Rico to pick up a puppy at Frederick County. I have people from Florida, from California coming to Frederick County to pick up a puppy that needs quality, and they didn't get it. So. So, I just ask that you will consider my application very seriously. I have a lot of passion for this, and I'm proud of what I'm doing because I'm doing it right. And I can always improve and do things better. I will always do that. Any questions, I'll be happy to answer. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I have a question. The applicant. Go ahead. Ma'am, do you own that property, or are you guys renting or leasing it at the present time? I own it. Yes. How long do you envision living here, staying here? I moved towards the end of last year here. How long do you envision living here? Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I envision living here for a very long time because this is, this property is more than I ever expected it, that I ever expected it to get. I never thought that I would get such a nice property. Any other questions? Go ahead. I'm good. I have a comment for the board of the Watertown. Yeah, I did. I sat on the board. I sat on the planning commission as the liaison. And, of course, the documents that we got were 50 adult dogs, not including puppies, which was very bothersome. That was what I, and we've gotten a lot of e-mails in regards to a puppy mill. Out of that, I know that people are after, not everybody's going to buy a shelter dog, so I feel you have the right to breed something. I mean, and you said you're part of the AKC. Right. Right? Right. Right. Right. I mean, I would agree. I would say that if you're a dog owner, you have to breed something that's hypoallergenic for people that need, you know, for allergies. And you have much more reasonable once you've brought it to us, the 12, I think you said. 12 dogs. Yeah. Dogs. 10 liters a year. Okay. So, and I'm for property rights. You own the property. I'm in support of your business. Do you have some comments? Yes. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. One, your property is approximately five acres large, is that correct? 5.2. So I've been told that you have upwards of 100 animals on that property, other types of animals. Is that accurate or not accurate? I was asked that, and I just said 100. But when you think about chickens, honestly, we have eight goats, three emus, five alpacas, and four pigs that my son won first place because he joined the FFA for the counting. He won with his pig. That's all the animals at medium size we have. The rest are chickens and pigeons and birds. You can have in a coop, you can have 10 chickens in a large coop. So when you count those coops, yeah, you're going to add up to 100 animals. But honestly, it's just medium-sized animals, 18. The rest are just birds and chickens. Okay. Second question, with 18 animals, how do you dispose of the waste on a five-acre plot of land? We do compose for the farm animals. And then the dogs will take to the landfill. My son composed the composting for fertilizing of the flowers. Yes. So after you do the compost, then you're removing the unused compost to the landfills? We take to landfill. Okay. Thank you very much. If there's no other questions, this is a public hearing. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Does anyone want to speak on this CUP request? I'm also for property rights. Name yourself and the district you're from. Okay. Opecan District. Dr. Candice Lundin. I'm a veterinarian. I'm a veterinarian. Previously spoke about... Dog breeding operation. I am for property rights. And I fully agree that we don't have enough American bred pets. My concern or my questions for this applicant would be, are all the pups microchipped before they're sold? How does she ensure that none of her poodles end up homeless or in shelters? Does she use a broker such as Greenfield to sell? Any of them? One part of the application at one point mentioned a lean-to being built at the back of the property for the puppies. I didn't really follow what that was, or maybe that has been changed. She says she's AKC registered. And yes, I'm sure some of those are. Her picture shows a Merle poodle. That's a disqualification in the poodles. It can be dangerous to breed to. It is true that you can test for it. She does the in-park testing to find out if anybody are Merle carriers. But you can't register, AKC register a Merle poodle unless you've done something on the paperwork. As a veterinarian, I'm mostly concerned with the mention of breeding up to 11 years of age. I tend to err on the younger side. It's just like humans. I mean, if it wasn't that we were, for people, concerned about whether a young woman is mentally and financially able to have a child, physically it's healthier for a 20-year-old human to have a child. It's healthier for dogs to be bred younger and stop earlier. My other question has to do with health testing. Yes, they're using the in-park health testing. It does cover. It does cover 200 plus genetic diseases, but only a very few of those actually apply to poodles. It's just a panel test. For instance, her poodle's never going to get Cawley Eye disease. It's not like you're protecting them from 200 things. I'd ask, is she a member or familiar with the Poodle Club of America? Is she able to list the recommended other health testing requirements for the standard poodle? The standard poodle has a requirement. It's a standard poodle. It's a requirement for testing for hip dysplasia using either the OFA or PenHIP. They should have an ophthalmologist examine the eyes. They're also supposed to have thyroid testing. And then a very severe problem and common problem in poodles is sebaceous adenitis. They need to be tested for that. And also have a cardiologist check the heart. Thank you. Anybody else have any comments? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Name and magisterial district, please. Okay. Gabriella from the Stonewall, Brooks. In your Stonewall? Okay. As a resident and neighbor, I personally believe it will be a great addition to the district. Not every breeder is a bad breeder. And that is why we need more breeders like Jenny Sale who actually care about their dogs. And breed to improve the breed and health quality of the dog instead of just breeding for fun. If you look at KKs on Google, I was looking at the reviews, you see there's testaments of happy families that adore KKs for being that trusted breeder everyone hopes to find. If this was a puppy mill or a negative addition for the community, there would not be so many public witnesses to her ethics. Especially nowadays that social media is a huge thing. People are not going to be able to find her. People are more willing to speak their minds than ever before. Just so everyone can understand how much a poodle can go for, the closest poodle shop is located in Chantilly, Virginia in which puppies sell for over $8,000. They get their puppies from outside breeders. Customers have absolutely no interaction with the parents or can even really see how the puppy is raised. With Jenny Sales Kennel, the puppies are born and raised in the same location under love, care, and care. And they are not going to be sold to anyone. They are going to be sold to the owner of the property. They are not going to be sold to anyone. And the puppies come from health tested parents and they even have health guarantee on their puppies which a lot of breeders don't do as well. All that for $2,500 that's less than half of what a pet shop would charge and you're getting more quality in a puppy. To me all the facts point to a responsible breeder who cares about her community and benefit people looking for a dog. Especially people who need a hypoallergenic dog. So I would say it's a good thing. I think it's very good to have a breeder that you can trust. Thank you. Any other comments? Name of Magisterial District please. My name is Daniel Brown. I'm from Back Creek District. I want to thank you for hearing me tonight. I wasn't going to say anything but I'm sitting here and I'm listening to this young lady talk about her dogs. And I have a good friend of mine with a cow. Okay. He has a dog. And he is a good man. And he always does a great job. But he's got a lot of respect for his dog. And he said he doesn't want to be a criminal. He is a good man. I think that's a great point. So my point is that no matter what happens the government overreaching here is absolutely ridiculous. That's just my opinion. Okay. Somebody, if they're going to be responsible with something, let them be responsible for it. We have our own property. We have our own rights. just tax money, people. It's just tax money. And this person's got to get this permit to get this done to get over there. And then we got to run around. And by the time we're done, there isn't anything left. And I'm standing here and I'm listening to this tonight. And I'm listening to about 5G and 6G and everything else and zap, zap, zap, zap. Do you guys have any idea what they're doing to us? Sir, sir, please address the board. Do you have any idea what they're doing to us? Most of you probably don't. As long as something is being done responsibly and ethically, there should be people be able to do things on their property. If this woman's got plenty of space and plenty of room and she's responsible for it, now something goes wrong, then you step in. Okay. But when you say to somebody, well, I've got to get this permit. I got to do that. And I got to buy this. And I have to do that. I mean, that to me is absolutely ridiculous. The amount of time, effort, energy, and money that it takes to do that, by the time she's done, she's out of money. And there is no way to recoup any of that time. We're about to roll into something that's going to be a lot of work. And I'm going to roll into something that's going to be a lot of work. And I'm going to roll into something that's going to be a lot of work. And I'm going to some of the worst times in history. And I think we ought to be concentrating more on where we can save money and be able to do what we need to do, rather than nitpicking about a lot of the stuff that's going on here. And with that, I want to thank you for taking a couple minutes of my time. Thanks. Thank you. Is there anybody else who would like to make some comments? Any magistrate of the district, please? Yeah, Joseph Brand in the Stonewall District. I'm a nearby neighbor. I live off of Sir John's Road. I drive past this lady's house on my way to go into town to do anything. And I'm just going to play and be simple and straight to the point. And please just approve this and stop holding things up and let people have their property and do the things that they want to do on their property. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else have any comments? Any magistrate of the district? Stonewall, sorry. So your name and your magistrate of the district? Alexis Flores, Stonewall. Thank you. I just want to start off with that I've been Yanny Sells' dog groomer for the past six years now. And I have firsthand experience how she works, how all her dogs are. She recommends most of her clients that buys puppies to me. And I can say without a doubt that not only are all her dogs, like perfect on the table, but all of her puppies that end up coming to me and that stay with me, you know, for years I've been having her clients' dogs with me. And they're by far like the best dogs that I've had on my table. And it has nothing to do with like it just being like the poodle breed. It's just that she brings her dogs, even the puppies to me at a very young age. And any groomer will tell you that that's super important when it comes to, you know, having them be more social, taking away fear of being groomed. That takes away a lot of like negative association with being groomed. And it really helps the puppies thrive into adulthood. And as a groomer, it's really hard to find a dog that's perfect in all aspects, that's just going to sit there while you scissor them for hours, or that's not going to freak out with the blow dryer, like things like that, that help them, you know, just get used to having like uncomfortable things, like a razor on their face or something like that. And I just want to say that it's how the dog reacts on the table is a huge indicator of the amount of love and care and structure given to them at home. And that's why I can say that I 100% support anything she does. Especially when it comes to her dogs, because I've seen firsthand how much love she pours into them. And all the families that buy dogs from her have always told me like, you know, I've been looking for this amount of time for a dog breeder that I can actually trust, that I can actually, you know, because it's not just about, you know, getting a puppy. It's a family member for 15, 20 years. So you have to really make sure that you're getting it from the right person, someone, that takes care of their dogs, that gives them, you know, not just some cheap food, that gives them good quality stuff, that does DNA testing, takes them to the vet regularly, things like that. So I can say that she is definitely a very responsible breeder. I've seen that throughout the years. And all of her clients always rave about her. And all of the, like I said, all of the puppies that come to me from her that other clients have bought, they always like, say that they're going to be a good dog. And I think that's a really good thing. And I think that's a really good thing. And I think that's a really good thing. And I think that's a really good thing. And I think that's a really good thing. Like, how amazing the dogs are. And that's because of the love and care that they're shown when they're little. Thank you. Yeah. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on this CUPA? Name your magisterial district, please. My name is Jacob Gamis, and I am from the magisterial district as well, of Stonewall. Thank you. I have personally studied dog training. I have personally studied dog training. I have personally seen the love and passion my mother has for her animals, for her dogs specifically, for their health and their overall well-being. I also work with the dogs as well. I see it firsthand. I am always there with those dogs, feeding them, taking care of them, spending time with them. And I can just say that my mom is always there. She's always, like, making sure that we are doing the right things to take care of the dogs responsibly, making sure that we are always attending to their needs, making sure that they're eating, making sure that they're eating well, that they're healthy, and so on. I've seen her spend over $4,000 on a dog who was meant for breeding, but when we genetically tested that dog, she had issues. She has genetic issues, and we had to retire her immediately because my mom was not going to breed a dog that would cause issues for a family, a future family. And that's why I believe that if there's a dog that's going to breed, if there's any person to, anyone fit to run a kennel, it would be my mother because I've seen so much work and so much passion that she has for this. And I can tell you that me being a worker, a co-worker with her and working with her with the dogs, that she has attended them and she just loves them so much. Thank you. Thank you. Does anyone else like to speak on this? So you pay. Going once. Going twice. All right. So we've heard the public comment. I'll now close the public comment. Board members. What is your purpose? I believe this is Stonewall. Mr. Chairman, as we did not receive the updates with the numbers and so forth until this evening and knowing that those numbers had reduced drastically, I would like to put this off for another meeting and give this some more consideration. I frankly, based on the numbers of overwhelming numbers of emails I received, as I'm sure all of you all received, it really raised some red flags for me. So I would like to give it another couple weeks and review it and give it some consideration more than where I was prepared to go with this this evening. So. I would ask to table. It's a motion to table. Okay. Second. All right. We've had a motion to table and a second. Discussion? How long would you like to table for, Ms. Slaughter? Two weeks until our next meeting? I think that should be sufficient time. Okay. Yeah, I can go along with it. I've received many emails, as I'm sure you have, as well as telephone calls from neighbors. And I was in a similar thought process, I believe, as you. Many negative comments. A lot of feedback from the community. But I've appreciated the insight comments. I'm glad to have been here this evening and appreciate the opportunity to see the new numbers that were just presented a few minutes ago. Thank you. And I would agree with that as well. I received those same negative. And also, our original thing said 50. So I think that's a good, but I, what we've heard tonight, I'm in support of it. But I'm also in support of waiting the two weeks. That's fine. Mr. Ludwig? Mr. Chairman, I guess I'm torn on waiting. Government gets to be bureaucratic. People wait forever. They're trying to get on with their lives. They have rights to their property. On the other hand, if I argue passionately and convince you all to vote now, I don't know if you are ready to give her the proper decision. I made a mistake, which is why I'm calling for a rescission later in this meeting on a place before. And it was a mistake because, similarly, the numbers that I had received beforehand talk, seemed to be. Someone with 100 dogs, that's turned out not to be the case. Even though it wasn't my district, I decided to go out and visit. We'll talk about that one coming up later tonight. I would encourage you, if you are going to put this off, don't just review the e-mails, but if you can spare the time, please go out and visit, like I did with this other place, and really assess, as best you can, the true nature of the operation. Thank you. Mr. Ludwig speaking as the breadbush supervisor. I'm in favor of this deferral. Just because I like having the money. more information to make a good analysis and so that just buys me the time to do that I appreciate your comments on property rights and so I'd just like to see where we are in two weeks they have further discussions the motion on the table is to delay for two weeks or until our meeting to our next meeting in October in that case this is Lockridge mr. Kramer mr. Wells slaughter I Ludwig nay done votes aye mr. de haven motion passes next item is a rezoning 0 2 2 3 of global headquarters Roman trucking this is in mr. Wells districts staff you here with me while I switch the presentation thank you mr. vice chair members of the board as you have noted this is a rezoning number o o o is this is a rezoning number B2 as is the Dollar Tree property. This parcel is split zoned. We actually don't believe that this parcel to the east is. There's just a bit of a discrepancy in our parcel boundary coverage versus the zoning layer. So that's what we're dealing with there. The proffer summary, and I believe I skipped over something. We're talking about two total acres. The proffer is to prohibit, rather, direct access to Route 277. This property is actually gaining access through the neighboring parcel to the east. They are additionally proffering 60 foot of right of way from the current Route 277 center line to allow for future widening per the comprehensive plan. Additional right of way if needed to accommodate the entrance to the east. Construction of a 10 foot trail along 277 and 10 cents per square foot for the fire and rescue company. Before you have the GDP and just to reiterate or point out the items I've just listed from the proffer, which are also on the GDP, this is that access to the east that I referenced just a moment ago. This is generally not exactly where they would be tapping through to be able to gain access. As noted, no access across the front here. and you have shaded out right-of-way and also your trail right there. With that, the Planning Commission reviewed this item on August 16th and has recommended approval following public hearing. Staff would be seeking, I'm sorry, not a recommendation, an action by the Board of Supervisors. I can answer any questions you may have. I believe it's a big crowd, so I didn't see them, but I do believe Mr. Frank is here and representing the applicant. Okay. Staff, have you questions of staff or members? Does the applicant wish to say anything? Good evening, members of the Board. My name is David Frank. I'm with Pannoni, and I'm representing the owner this evening. This subject property is the formerly housed, the Bowman Trucking business. It was an industrial business that is no longer present on the site. In fact, the site is vacant, and we feel that this property, this property is ready to be rezoned from industrial to general business to match the adjacent zoning fronting on 277. I'm here to answer any questions you may have. Does everybody have any questions for the applicant? Thank you. Is this Stonewall? No. It's Opec. I apologize, Mr. Bowles. Mr. Chairman, it's a public hearing. Okay. Thank you. It's a public hearing. Does anyone like to speak on this application? Going once, twice. Hearing none. Public hearing is now closed. I'm sorry, Mr. Wells. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of rezoning 0-2-23 of Global Headquarters LLC, excuse me, Bowman Trucking. Second. Discussion? Hearing none. Second. Mrs. Lockridge? I apologize. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Dunn votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Mr. DeHaven? He might help you with this. Okay. The motion does pass. Next item. Conditional Use Permit 0423-443. For the Everett. Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair and members of the Board. This is a request for a Conditional Use Permit for a tractor truck and tractor trailer truck parking. The subject property is located on Ebert Road in the Stonewall Magisterial District. Turning your attention to the screen, the property is outlined in blue. The property is east of 81, west of Martinsburg Road. The property is east of 81, west of Martinsburg Road. The property is east of 81, west of Martinsburg Road. The property is east of 81, west of Martinsburg Road. The property is east of 81, west of Martinsburg Road. The property is east of 81, west of Martinsburg Road. The property is east of 81, west of Martinsburg Road. The property is east of 81, west of Martinsburg Road. The property is north of 11th and is, again, off of Ebert Road. The applicant proposes 107 spaces, and has provided a draft layout for the parking. Tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking is only permitted as a Conditional Use in the M2. The property is zoned M2. The current land is vacant. Surrounding properties are zoned M2. zoned into and are also utilized for industrial purposes supplementary use regulations of the zoning ordinance requires areas utilized for parking of trucks and storage of trailers to have a great gravel or paved surface that paved a graveled surface has to be properly maintained there's no inoperable trucks or damaged salvage trailers or unlicensed trailers to be parked or stored on-site fuel sales are not permitted maintenance of trucks or maintenance of trailers are also not permitted additionally the facilities will be required to provide a landscape on the front the side and the rear yard areas this landscaping is in accordance with the supplementary use regulations again for tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking a site plan in accordance with the requirements of Article 8 would be submitted to unfortunately are not livable because we have no plan to swallow any energy and be approved by Frederick County. Should the Board of Supervisors find this use appropriate, the Planning Commission recommends the following conditions to be placed on the conditional use permit. All review agency comments shall be complied with at all times. A site plan shall be submitted and approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use on the property. The site plan shall meet, again, the requirements and the ordinance for tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking. Any expansion or change of use will require a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission held a public hearing August 16th and recommended approval, and staff is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on this requested conditional use permit. Staff is available to answer any questions, and the applicant's representative, Mrs. Swash Helm, is also in attendance to answer any questions. Thank you. Board members, have any questions for staff? Hearing none. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Does the applicant... I don't wish to make any comments. Good morning. Good evening. Good evening. I can't fault you for, after such a long meeting, not knowing. I'm Erin Swash Helm. I work for Walsh Colucci. I'm here on behalf of the applicant. I just wanted to say we wanted to thank staff for working so closely with us and that the applicant is prepared to adhere to all conditions. And we're happy to hear from you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. any questions that the Board may have? Do we have any questions of... MS. MICHAEL SWISEL? MS. SLUSEL? Go ahead, Mr. Weber. I have one. Being these facilities are often used as rest areas as well for the driver when he comes in, does the applicant have any issue with expect putting and maintaining a portable restroom facility, like a porta-pyoep or something of that nature on site and maintaining it in order to maintain a level of hygiene at the site? I'm just bringing him up. That wasn't on the presentation. wasn't a question that I anticipated I'm so sorry this is mr. Charlie Sweeney who is the principal in the the company that owns a property no it's okay he's a hard of hearing he's asking if you would be willing to maintain a porta potty facility on the property in case of any need of one of the drivers when they're switching cars certainly yes thank you thank you about us have any questions thank you very much this is a public hearing so we like to speak to this rezoning this conditional use permit my name is Mike Weber from Stonewall district my only concern is and I brought this up at the planning committee mission it's never been addressed that I have heard it's the traffic on route 11 if you've been in this area and you see a tractor-trailer come out there and try and get on 11 it is very difficult and this wasn't addressed any turn lanes or anything I think there should be something done to bring these trucks in and out safely you've got a ton of traffic coming off all challenge all Charlestown Road because there's Snowden Bridge and if you sit there and tell us that then we'll see that this is the் more correctly well Travis yeah well the public whoever made a request to go down here on R 11. I've got coordinate�我 к Ƹу ƶうィ comptIDa you continue to tell me that my traffic office haven't stopped be sick is going beHHHHHHH gonna pay for that day Route 11 is a disaster. To put one more car on there is a disaster. It took me a long time to get here tonight just to drive through the Red Bud District there at Stevenson. It's awful. It shouldn't be like that. It needs to be corrected. I was told 10 years ago we were going to work on that, and no one has done anything about it. That's why we're here right now for the other meeting. It's going to be a disaster. Thank you. Thank you. Does anybody else like to speak to the CUP? Going once. Twice. Hearing none. Public hearing is closed. Board members, Stonewall. Mr. Chairman, just for clarification on the comments that were made, in the packet of information we received comments from VDOT. Would someone speak to the comments from VDOT, please? Yes, thank you. I do have a comment from VDOT. They basically had no comment. On the application. Just for clarification, the application was sent. The question was asked. Yes. As far as CUPs, we're not in a position that we're actually even able to require a traffic study on a conditional use permit like this. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I appreciate the clarification. This is Stonewall. I will make a motion to approve conditional use. Permit 04234 Lee Ebert, LLC. You've heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. Motion is Mr. Slaughter. Excuse me, Chairman DeHaven. I would like to add Mr. Graber's comment to that with the addition of the hygiene facilities. So we have a motion with the comments from Mr. Graber on hygiene facilities as part of this motion. Is that correct? Yes. And Mr. DeHaven, you agree with that as a second? I do. Okay. Having said that, discussion? Yeah, I just wanted to say, how do we, and I was looking at the VDOT review, and of course there really are no comments, but Route 11 is majorly congested, and as we know, Frederick County is lacking in our infrastructure. So in order to address that, I... Is this going to bring how many, 100 and however many trucks? Is it for overnight parking, they will be staying there and then exiting in the morning? What is the plan for the parking? I'd like to have staff maybe address that issue, or Ms. Swelson to address that issue. Hi. So, no, it's not just overnight parking. The plan is that those, there would be a certain number of trailers there all the time, and they're just switching out trailers. So the tractor comes in, not necessarily the trailer. They're either picking up or dropping off the trailers. So there will be some of them that will be there for long periods of time. It's not just an overnight, you know, quick turn type of situation. So I'm wondering what the impact on the traffic on that road, you know, Snowdon Bridge is right there. They just put in this traffic light not too long ago. So wondering about the tractor trailers exiting. I went and drove there today. Of course, the time I was there, I didn't see one tractor trailer exit. But anyways, I'm positive that no matter what the scenario is, Route 11 is very congested. I'm not a traffic engineer. And as noted, we weren't asked to do a traffic study. I will say that VDOT's comments do say that any expansion in the use would cause them to look at it again and that they might require it. So I'm not saying that we're not going to do additional scoping and study. But they thought that what was out there was sufficient to accommodate the use. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make some comments if I might. Go ahead. Snowdon Bridge came in, and I'm not going to say it was the straw that broke the camel's back, but it added thousands of trips a day on that road. If you look back at this county, for 12 years, this county chose to continue to fund schools instead of continuing to fund roads. And we're paying the price. Our roads were not funded as far as there was no county funds that went to our roads for 12 years until last year. Last year, we allocated money through the transportation fund, and we have received two to three times the return on our investment. And I'm extremely thankful for that, and that is a good step in the right direction. This year, we are also committing funds to that. This is only the second year, however. We've received approximately 30 percent growth in our population prior to the last 18 months of us allocating funds. So we're not going to be able to do that again. We're going to have to continue to fund schools, and we're going to have to continue to fund schools. We're going to have to continue to fund schools, and we're going to have to continue to fund schools. transportation. We cannot continue to be so short-sighted. While our schools do need to have adequate funding, there are other areas of the county that must be funded as well. Transportation is one of them. I cannot see us holding up a project, one simple project here, that may add 100 trips a day when we have projects that are going in that are adding thousands of trips a day. We have these other outside agencies, VDOT being the one that manages our roads or gives us our direction on roads, but I don't always agree with them. We have to abide by what they give us, and in this case, I don't think that we can punish one and not another, and tell one they can and another that they can't. It just comes down to simple property rights. So I will support this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're welcome. Anybody else have any comments? Hearing none, I'll make one comment, Mr. Graber, on the transportation. We're all trying to work together on this, and this could take a while, so I appreciate your comments. So we have a motion. Who's on the table? Mrs. Lockridge? I'll support it. Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. Motion passes. Before we get to our next item, we've been here for three hours. I'm going to suggest that if the Board so chooses, we take a 10-minute break, have a chance to stretch our legs. I heard the comment, we'll take a 10-minute break. In about 10 minutes, I'm being covered. I'm back here in 10 minutes, and then we will continue the process on the NELIP. So unless there's an exception, we'll take a 10-minute break. Thank you. Thank you, Plain. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'd like to bring the meeting back together. Back to order. So we're now going to have a Comprehensive Plan Amendment for the Northeast Land Use Plan. The time right now is 1110. So I just want to give some 10-10. 10-10. So let's just put down some parameters on where we're going to go here. We have approximately 21, 22 people that have signed up. At three minutes apiece, that will be an hour. I know there's some additional people that would also like to speak that did not have the opportunity to sign. At 11 o'clock, this board has to decide whether they were going to continue or not. I would like to go and at least continue through the public hearing so that everyone has a chance to speak. I know that two weeks ago, many people were here and couldn't speak. So we hope to get through that portion. That will be the consensus of the board on where we go from there. So having said that, Mr. Pearson, go ahead and tell us what you can tell us on the options. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And with that direction, I'll be as quick as I can to cover as much ground as I can. This is your Northeast Land Use Plan public hearing. You've heard it a couple times from me, but I'll cover some of the high points to provide both an update to you of where we've been and where we're heading. Your current adopted NELOP was approved by the Board of Supervisors originally in 2011 and then with property-specific amendments in 2014 and 2015. We chose this plan as our primary small area plan to begin with our round of updates because there was no text initially in the plan. So that was a major initiative to work towards that. So beginning in November of 2021, a citizen work group was formed and provided recommendations and plan maps and texts for consideration by your normal process for comprehensive plan amendments. That included the CPPC, your comprehensive plans and programs, work with the Planning Commission. And then we went out for public information sessions and surveying in fall of 2022. Around December of 2022 and March of 23, the same discussions occurred and refined the plans further. And in May, I think you all authorized us to conduct public hearings on scenario A and scenario B, which I'll detail a little further. After that, we sent it out for agency comment, which I can address in a minute. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And then here we are, summer-fall 2023, seeking approval of the Northeast Land Use Plan draft update. So some general plan changes that were made that applied to pretty much the entirety of the area was changes to land use designations that reflect both the existing conditions on the ground and more likely development patterns as it relates to market conditions. We added some text to a lot of areas since there wasn't any. Considered property-specific requests from developers and owners and incorporated and rejected some of those in conjunction with the Planning Commission, and then consolidated a couple future land use categories, namely warehousing and heavy industrial, since they only existed in the Northeast Land Use Plan. So I'll go into a little more detail, but the map before you is what we've been describing as Scenario A. To emphasize really the focus that I want to get to tonight about the differences between Scenario A and Scenario B, I'm going to show you the overall maps for both and just click back and forth between the two of them. But if you focus on this area, the only difference between Scenario A and Scenario B focuses on those properties outlined in magenta. So Scenario A and Scenario B, and that's the easiest way that I can do to just demonstrate that there are no broader changes between the two scenarios other than those properties in question. And just for context, your currently adopted plan, and you can tell the difference between that existing plan and Scenario B or A by the map that you're seeing here. So Scenario A is a map of the existing plan. And Scenario B is a map of the existing plan. And Scenario B is a map of the existing plan. So Scenario A is a map of the existing plan. And Scenario B is a map of the existing plan. But those are common elements in both Scenario A and B. These are the supporting maps that we changed. As you can see, we didn't eliminate sensitive natural areas altogether. It still exists on an appendix, but not on the future land use map. Your normal transportation plan, and then your lane divides, which articulates how and when or how wide each major roadway going through. The Northeast is intended to be well into the future as the area continues to develop. So getting to agency comment, we had three agencies respond. VDOT's the first. Their comments were pretty simple and straightforward. Essentially, they anticipate that either of the proposed scenarios will generate more traffic than the existing plan, but Scenario B is likely to develop less traffic than Scenario A. The concept plans for future transportation network could be incorporated if Scenario A, Scenario B is considered as the preferred scenario by the board, and that refers to the CARMUS rezoning application, which developed a concept plan for road abandonments in the area that they plan to rezone. I can articulate that a little further. I don't think it's necessary to incorporate into the Scenario B at this time, because I think we've already seen previews of the rezoning application. It's working its way through the process, and the road abandonments are just clearly a component of that rezoning. It does not necessarily need to be reflected in the comprehensive plan. And then consideration for the split interchange, which I'll show on the next slide, which is a long-held transportation concept we've had to assist in the Exit 321 area with traffic, which would allow for a split interchange between Hopewell Road and Cedar Hill. And VDOT asked for us to consider removing that, because they don't feel that it may be prudent into the future. So if you're at Exit 321 here on I-81, you have Cedar Hill Road to the north as you head towards West Virginia. The split interchange concept would, would be the installation of a frontage road. So if you got off going northbound at 321, the way you get back on the interstate to go northbound is to follow the frontage road in a one-way alignment and then get back on. And that would spread the traffic out between the two interchanges and provide for more capacity. Staff's comment for that is, we support VDOT's perspective on the concerns they share with us about the future of a split interchange at that location. There are some problematic, existing conditions that make it difficult to implement that. It's very expensive, could face major scrutiny at FHWA. However, absent a study to modify our thinking on what is a transportation solution for those two interchanges, we recommend leaving it on the comprehensive plan. Thankfully, we're already working on a study with the MPO that's going to evaluate 321 and 323, and that we think will provide clarity in the near future. And at that time, we can bring in a specific amendment to modify the split interchange, or replace it with whatever the recommendation of that study is. Frederick Water provided agency comment that was similar to the first bullet point of VDOT's points, which is essentially to just lay out what capacity would be needed to be increased in the area to serve either scenario. Scenario A is a bit more of a thirsty use as it relates to water and sewer capacity. And then scenario B is, would require far less investment from the development community. For both the VDOT comment and the Frederick Water agency comment, I want to clarify, at one point that got lost at the planning commission level, neither scenario places any sort of investment burden on Frederick County. We're not rezoning these properties. We're planning for the future. Rezoning applications would need to come, and if there's need for higher capacity in the water and sewer, we could work with the development community and ensure that's provided to accommodate their development. Same goes for the transportation network. And then Frederick Water will plan for either scenario if adopted. Public schools left a little note for us, just that they don't have any schools in the mind, right now in this area, but on this existing planning horizon, but they will need one into the future beyond the current planning horizon. So I'm gonna go into a little more detail on scenario A and B quickly. So I wanted to overview some colors that I'm gonna show on the next map. So I made a quick legend for you. One at first is mixed use industrial office, which is the candy cane color. Again, I want to emphasize the title. These are future land use categories. These are not zoning designations. So these properties are not being rezoned, and they're not being re-zoned. They cannot build technology manufacturing office parks if they end up in the candy cane color. It's an indication of how this community views the future of those properties. If a rezoning application is submitted and it's consistent with the comprehensive plan, and in turn with those future land use categories, that weighs in favor of the rezoning application. The other two are industrial, which is blue, typically represented by warehousing, light manufacturing, and specialty trade contracting. And then gray is the extractive mining designation, which speaks for itself in the title, but is quarrying, mining, and processing of minerals and rock. So to speak to scenario A, I'm gonna refer to two different land bays. The first, which is west of Interstate 81, outlined in magenta, we've been referring to as the Fruit Hill properties, and it's what you will remember from the recent Fruit Hill rezoning application that was withdrawn. Second, I'll refer to as the Carmoose land bays. I want to clarify, not all the properties within that magenta line are specifically owned by Carmoose, but since it's subject to a rezoning application they have on file, we'll just draw up a list. So, I'm gonna refer to the Carmoose land bays, generally refer to it as that, and they do own the vast majority of the property within that area. So, on scenario A, the Fruit Hill properties are designated for mixed-use industrial office. That is the current adopted plan as well for these areas, as the NELIP exists on the books today. For scenario A, for the Carmoose properties, there's industry designations along the rail line, and then mixed-use industrial office along the rest of those properties. It's worth noting that some of the thinking and development of scenario A took into account, the high transmission lines that run through both of these properties and come from east to west, and their ability to facilitate, potentially, development of this caliber, I'd say. Switching to scenario B, Fruit Hill is represented as plain industrial blue, and the Carmoose properties are represented as primarily extractive mining. Mr. Minshew with Carmoose was kind enough to remind me that the rezoning application is of a more limited scale as far as the extractive mining is concerned, so some of the properties that are located in the area of the Carmoose are mainly extractive mining. So, some of the properties that are located in the area of the Carmoose are mainly extractive mining. Some of the properties shown in gray may not be necessary for their actual rezoning application, but from a land use planning perspective, I don't think it's out of sorts to keep them as that designation, because they may not fit really well in any other designation, because they're so small in nature that it may be hard to develop them for other uses. Welcome to further direction from the board on that, if scenario B is considered. Then, just switching back to your current adopted plan to provide some context, Fruit Hill properties, again, existing mixed-use industrial office, and the Carmoose properties, industrial, warehousing, and heavy industrial. And again, these two categories only exist here in the Northeast Land Use Plan and nowhere else in the rest of the county planning documents. I'm happy to answer any questions. I went over a lot of things pretty quickly and may have left something out from throughout the process that I'm happy to revisit in further detail for the board or the public's benefit. This is your draft update for the Northeast Land Use Plan presented for public hearing. Your planning commission recommended scenario B at their July 19th meeting, and we are seeking a decision from the board on how to handle this draft update. Thank you, Mr. Vice Chairman. We appreciate your help. Board members, do you have any questions for staff? So thank you very much for the work that you've put in, for you and your staff. This is a public hearing. Please be courteous for the three-minute time limit we have, and we'll be here for a while. If Ann can, if Mrs. Phillips can go and name the first person and the second or third, that way we can- I will call the first person and the next person to speak so that person can be ready. Tina Bragg, followed by David Kress. Good evening. And your name, Magisterial District? Tina Bragg, Stonewall District. Thank you. My husband and I live on Walters Mill Lane. We have to go around that big quarry mountain and the quarry pit to get to our house every day. So we are very familiar with what is going to happen if they are allowed to expand down towards the West Virginia state line. We have dealt with the blasting, we've dealt with the noise and the light pollution. We've dealt with the equipment sounds. At one point, they were so high on that mountain, the equipment was, that lights from the trucks were shining around our bedroom at night. I'm happy to see Car Moose employees are here tonight, because if they're here, they're not at my house making noise. And honestly, I'm kind of looking forward to going home, where there's gonna be peace and quiet tonight. I sent an email to all of you three weeks ago, and if you didn't read it, I have copies with me tonight if you'd like to see it. Extractive mining rapes the land and the citizens pay for it. Anyone who lives near the proposed rezoning area is going to have to deal with damage to their homes, not houses, homes, plus noise from the equipment and possibly damage to their wells. Once the destruction of the land begins, where will the new stockpile of debris be located? I know where it is now and it just keeps getting bigger. Is this what you guys wanna see in the county? That is what new businesses and citizens and visitors are going to see if you allow this. Mining destroys wildlife habitats and leaves gaping holes that don't go away. How many citizens have come forward and said, you know, hey, we'd like to have some blasting in a big hole in our neighborhood. We don't want it, we're stuck with it. If the Amazon building that is going to be close by, is a place where there's gonna be a lot of damage, we're stuck with it. If the Amazon building that is going to be close by, and if there's some damage, is damaged, are they going to file a lawsuit? Has anyone calculated the possible loss in tax revenue if that land is rezoned to extractive mining instead of multi-use? How many supervisors have viewed the current operations? If you did, did you see the pit? Did you only see what they wanted you to see? Can you be sure you saw everything? If you have visitors at your house, do you invite them to look under the bed and see the dust bunnies? I mean, you know, what you see is what they want you to see. I have trouble believing everything they say. They have not planted grass on the current debris pile that they said they would plant years ago when they started it. They have not lowered that pile by 50 feet as they've said they would. In fact, when we left our house this evening to come up here, there was a loader up on top of that pile. When that rezoning was approved for the Martin Farm, they said it would be, if I remember correctly, 10 years before they were digging in there. It wasn't 10 years. It was two to three years, and they were in there digging. They have already put in an application to rezone 500 acres that is shown in option B. Are they afraid that if they don't push it through before the election, you know, that somebody is going to be more on their side? Was that seriously three minutes already? Do you want to take a minute or two to finish? Go ahead. I do have a question for Ms. Lockridge. Did the results of that groundwater testing come back? This is a public hearing, so you can get that. Okay, well, she just sent it to me in an email. I just wanted to be sure. Thank you. David Kress, followed by David Reiner. Good evening, Supervisors. I'm from the Shawnee District, I believe. I come before this board as being in the mining industry for over 50 years. I was the state mine inspector for the Clearbrook operation starting back when it was the W.S. Fry quarry. So I'm older than the dirt itself. But I just wanted to set some facts straight. First of all, limestone is a very important mineral. If you want to, I heard Garber, I believe, Mr. Garber, mentioned infrastructure. If you want infrastructure, you've got to have limestone. If you, obviously I'm in favor of scenario B, but if you take away the opportunity to provide the limestone, your driveways, your lanes, your, highways, concrete are going to be exorbitant in price because all that mineral has to come in somewhere. Also, the chemical lime that Carmoose at the present time mines is used in water purification. It is also used in steel making. And a little secret, the Titanic sank because it did not have enough limestone in the steel and it was not fired in a kiln. The pig iron was not made in kilns with the proper heat. Thirdly, you talked about water. Look at the water resource that this quarry provides. And the water, it may be hard, but it's clean. And you can correct the hardness of the water. So, it makes good economic sense, really common sense, to go with the scenario B proposal. Thank you. Thank you. David Reiner, followed by Robert Galloway. Good evening. Thank you for this opportunity. Just for all of you, when you approach, just for the record, please just go right into it, okay. State your name and your magisterial address. David Reiner, Stonewall District. And I am for Plan A. This is a non-scientific study. What more can be said? What more can be said of this unseemly site? Carmoose and their ways, they don't seem quite right. They gave us a mountain where one never stood. They clog up our traffic for their own profit good. With pretense of pride for community interest, they make all their plans to eventually stick us. With another big hole that nobody wants, except those who have eyes for the really big bucks. Squaring off at board meetings with elected officials, their plan to bring Clearbrook to to bring ruin to Clearbrook, it sizzles. What more can be said of their plan for our future? A hole from here to the state line, a capital venture. Having extracted their means of their ill-gotten gain, they'll abandon the effort and leave us the same. A hole even bigger and another huge mountain of limestone and waste to Carmoose extraction. What more can be said of this company's plans and our county's refusal to resist their demands? By voting, we fix what the county refuses, while Carmoose goes on with their mining abuses. If allowed to continue this predictable course, God only can save from this political force. We'll be crushed underhand by weight thrown in circles of high dollar players who leap over hurdles. Carmoose, will go on unto new mining ventures, while Clearbrook regrets its lack of good censors. We'll have all they leave us a constant reminder of what ills can come in the community grinder. So don't wait to learn so after the fact. To gain our community, we won't get it back. Our landmark will be a mountain and hole the likes of which only Clearbrook will know. Our town we hold is no tourist attraction, what will be even less with no county action. They'll grind us to powder with their own hands. They'll grind us to powder. We'll take back our land with their noise and their lights. Say goodbye to your sleep. If you live near that site, what more can be said of Carmoose's insistence to pulverize Clearbrook till she's out of existence. We'll gaze at our hole with naval stair interest and kick our own butts for our glaring indifference. And you know, I'm one of those and there's many others in here that don't have that glaring indifference to what's about to take place. There's no backing up, and you know, you're about to make a decision on the community impact of a kennel. and they're about to dig us a crater all the way to the state line. I mean, really give that some deep consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Robert Gallilee. Robert Gallilee. Okay, Doug Cochran, followed by Arthur Bragg. Maybe Magistrate of the District, please. Doug Cochran, Stonewall District. I just wanted to bring up the point that you need to look long-term at what you're going to do to taxes in this county. I know it's hard to look at this from different districts outside of the Stonewall District, but you've got to remember that the taxes go to the county, not just the district. And once this property is mined out, you all have probably seen the tax figures already, you go from what were taxed on a residential property down to about $10 an acre or so once this is mined out because nobody's going to be able to pay that. Nobody wants this property anymore. So that's a decrease in the overall revenue once this property is mined out, as opposed to if you do light industrial or commercial or warehousing, you're going to have a tax base for years and years and decades and decades, as opposed to a big hole in the ground that's worth nothing to anybody and the county can't tax it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Arthur Bragg, followed by Charles Gardner. Mr. Bragg. Acting Chairman Dunn and the board members, I'm Arthur Bragg from a resident of the historic Brewstown in the Stonewall District. And I've read the proffers submitted by Carmoose to gain your vote for scenario B. And I have many concerns with these proffers. The realignment of Grace Bible Church Road, there's no mention of Blacktop for any of the present people. It will only be around their property. For years, we've heard about the reduction of the height of the Carmoose Mountain. As a good neighbor, why hasn't this been done? One min for Brewstown Road realignment, the cost is $6 million. Taxpayer gets rewarded with the rest. An entrance to and exit from the old ball fields on Route 11, $6 million would make the realignment of Brewstown Road not necessary. Also in the proffers, it mentions in emergency situations will notify the county zoning administrator. How do residents get information? Damage caused by blasting, no mention of damage to wells or foundations or to the Frederick County swimming pool in the park out there. $250 to the fire department. That won't buy an ambulance or a fire truck. $250 to the Parks and Recreation to spend else, and the county has a right to spend that money elsewhere, not in the Stonewall District. The biggest joke is the $750,000 for a walk, bike trail to Snowden Bridge from Frederick Park or Clearbrook Park over Stevenson Road and Old Charlestown Road, an accident or death waiting to happen. Parks to receive. And recs will have to maintain it, which increases their budget yearly. Has each supervisor read these proffers? And has the county attorney given it their blessing? I compare Carmouche's land spread like someone with cancer, which we can treat with chemo or radiation. The only meds we have for Carmouche spread is your vote for scenario A. Thank you. Thank you. Charles Gardner, followed by Steve Payton. Good evening. I'm Charlie Gardner. I live in the Stonewall, Missouri District. I'm just going to address a few things real quick. From my article in the newspaper, there was a gentleman, I hope he's in his room, his name was Thompson, said that he noted all the trucks leave Carmouche after being on the scales, et cetera, and everything else, and they go through a war system, and, you know, all this. All this is going to be a war system. they help clean up a system that roads and everything else well if they went through the water system they wouldn't be spilling rocks out on the roads okay one they don't do this just today the last two days trucks are going out of the dirty I got pictures being one behind it just earlier today all right it's all BS they all BS everything they're doing is BS you know and the thing is I'm glad to see all the workers in here because I want you to realize if you prove this thing your tax base you might twice the amount of these people's as workers versus scenario a you might get five times the people working and you're looking at property that you're going to sit here like you said taxes it's gonna be a rural farmland versus commercial you're the one sitting here spending money and spending money you're trying to figure out how to get it your get it you're not gonna get it from this and once it's gone it's gone okay another thing to looking at this group are y'all into diversity is this county and diversity look at this group you see any diversity in that I want you ladies to think about that you're gonna support a company that does not approve diversity think about that long and hard another thing too is with this water tank it was made clear many years ago when y'all built this water tank everybody west of it would be getting water and sewer everybody east of it you'd know never see the water what you didn't make clear is it you'd be taking our water okay our wells have dropped I no longer have turkey run because right now the county has a 12-inch 600-foot well right beside Wetzel's spring and I've seen with a drone it's dry turkey run there's a big hole there so what you do fill it with rock not cabinet the concrete let's just fill a rock so it continually runs down so what what happened to property rights you're talking about here what a about my property rights where a turkey run now does not run where am I going to be compensated for this I'm not I'm not going to be compensated for this I'm not ever gonna see water down through I'm not ever going to see turkeys and deer and everything else they don't have no need to be there because there's no water for I think it's disgusting I think a lot of things that I've heard about this and the way things are going and you feel like it's it's a financial thing and they're holding the water over you but what about us the ones who's losing the water who's gonna drill our wells who comes and changes my dirty I have multiple properties and all of the filters are gritty black they never used to be like that until all this blasting and everything else going since car miss has been there I'm for a and I pray to God you are to take care of this county and his residents not a country or another company that's outside of USA thank you Steve Payton followed by Michael Drummond good evening members of the board my name is Steve Payton I'm from the Stonewall district I previously wrote an email to mrs. slaughter and I think she had that distributed to you all but I wanted to provide a few comments this evening also I'm here today to share my support for scenario a I have concerns economically and environmentally if scenario B is chosen just as my neighbors have said I think economically you know I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get a lot of money out of this financially long term this could be detrimental after attending the Frederick County Planning Commission meeting on this issue I understood from that meeting that the planning office and the citizen group recommended scenario a after a significant study and investment of time I also understood public meetings with citizens strongly supported scenario a yet the Planning Commission chose option B I'm not sure citizens have any leverage or ability to change government today as my neighbors as my neighbor stated but I'm going to provide some some of my input and when I say as my neighbor stated I saw in the paper today there's a neighbor in a Stonewall district that it stated once this becomes a land-use plan our leverage and ability to change goes away and that's my concern I'll highlight that an option B there's a lot of change that's going to happen and I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get that direct трав you know here that our main problem is we've got to make sure everybody office because I want to have a plan and we need to evaluate it for sure and we're aware that that's not the only thing that's going on at our haha well then that's businesses can't make it work either way don't We Let's Get Back To Although We Should Have Some Tim Eahrer Dürer later that evening we have a way to make it work now And if there aren't any plans for subjects will the County car moves to reduce the height of the stockpile over two years carmous will contribute 1.5 million in financial and land contributions to Hopewell and we're explained ultimately miss it will make large monetary donations of 1.5 million of stonewall elementary kloberg fire and rescue parks and rec and a trail system as it was mentioned previously but that's conditionalrunsaco jus o only further rezoning that they're requesting I would add that at car moose entered into an agreement in June 2020 with Frederick County water or with Frederick water it sounds to me like it's a conflict of interest for Frederick water to provide input on scenario a or scenario B if they have an agreement with a company that's pushing one of the scenarios car moose is currently having a peer review by Virginia Tech specialists for groundwater study to explain how things worked us non mining individuals to support their pending request for rezoning I'd be curious how much they've contributed to Virginia Tech over the years I would guess it's probably substantial I would also wonder why is it a peer review and not an independent review I've always been told read the fine print and see who paid for the study it usually impacts the position being stated in 2012 the county approved ninety two eighty-one and fifty-one and fifty-one and fifty-one and fifty-one and fifty-one acres of parkland for car moose it's resulted in a stockpile they created and are now using the possibility of reducing its size if I could just finish yeah go ahead reducing its size as leverage that they want now four hundred additional acres rezoned for mining extraction I see a lot of other data and things but this is what I'll close with my only ask of the Board of Supervisors is don't totally sell out to car moose was that stockpile that exists today in vision when the county gave car moose approval for the ninety two acres choose scenario a Mike car moose asked for rezoning that doesn't align to a land use plan that you approved if you approve option B you give up your leverage over what they do I encourage you to maintain control of the county and don't let a company that hasn't shown any regard to be a good neighbor or desire to do what is right unless they benefit financially and they are willing to pay for it thank you Mike Drummond followed by Janice Wade good evening my name is Michael Drummond Stonewall district new neighbor here two years and I was a former biologist with the US Fish and Wildlife Service working environmental contaminants fisheries and endangered species work and I can tell you I've seen firsthand what mining can do when it gets done poorly and I can tell you right now that spoil pile over there I've never seen a spoil pile that big permitted anywhere so and I sit on my front porch and watch the trucks at night dumping more and more so you all need to wrangle that in a little bit somehow but going back to this new expansion you know a lot of these things that people have already talked about with regards to you can see the expansion of the waterways and the water的时候 pretty much i did not understand this you know it allows us to wines a lot of these we can't find any lives today to corporations that let us out just because we want to screen or have them come up to us if they don't want to be able to come back then a lot of these are down below like in the area where the boats which is locally壮 사진 of a river chase back up the front of the imam drops enable them to go up here they can probably i don't think therazian guys but they can staring at your pollutants in that stream and it's already elevated so now we're gonna throw another problem into the creek so you all need to think about that when you make this decision because scenario a is the right one thank you thank you Janice Wade followed by Megan DeVries good evening I'm Janice Wade from Bat Creek and I wish more of the rest of the county took this issue seriously the question for you is which neighbors of our community are you going to honor here the people who live work buy homes raise chickens and children run and walk in the park send their children to our schools and drive on our roads and want scenario a or is it the Belgian based company car moose whose purpose results in irrevocable changes to our land as we've heard whatever car moose thinks they've offered our community or has projected to do has been for its own benefit so that they can continue to mine that's the first step and then the second step is to make sure that we have an effective solution to our problem that we have and that it doesn't just happen for no reason and that's what we're doing in the county we're doing something that's what we're doing in our community and that's why we're in this place today to take the risk of buying so much land and offering proffers shows their serious intent and their belief that you can be bought and convinced but there's a current quarry and berm as evidence why would we expect And so truthfully we grow weary and we're put on at 11 o'clock at night. Let everyone here who wants to talk speak tonight. Call it kitty litter or whatever it all points to foreign-based car moose. As a resident on the other side of the county my windows are open seasonally without fear of noise and dust and respiratory pollutants. I run my well water without significance and concern for sediments or having it run dry. I've never had to fill cracks in my walls from uneven settling. My home value is not dependent on the view of a quarry. My neighbors over here in Bruce Town, Stevenson and Clearbrook have a different experience and instead of listening to the people who've already been victimized by car moose for multiple decades I fear you might extend their experience to whole other neighborhoods. Over in Middleburg residents are in an uproar about a park adding lights that will contribute to light pollution at night. Can you imagine their response if a quarry were being moved into their backyard? Frederick County residents have also spoken clearly and if you vote to change the land use to B it is not because your constituents are in favor of it regardless of how many car moose employees showed up tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Megan DeVries followed by Will Webber. Good evening my name is Megan DeVries and I'm with a Stonewall District. I'm a resident of Stonewall and I'm a resident of the North Carolina County District. I've been reviewing the car moose plans. I reviewed their rezoning application and many many other documents thanks to my husband for pulling lots of research articles for me. And I've realized unfortunately how heavily orchestrated this has been. One example why did car moose buy up SVC's Shenandoah Valley Electric Co-ops small rectangle piece of purpose giving it back to the county? Why also did they list all their employees and representatives to speak at the end after we've spoken to give the final hurrah? It's very heavily orchestrated and that's been quite sad but we do stand a chance if you take our voices seriously. Recognize car moose for who they really are. Belgium as many people have mentioned foreign business looking out for only their interests. Previously I forwarded each of you a copy of the limestone quarry hydraulic impact study completed in Michigan. The study concluded that limestone quarries have a significantly negative hydraulic impact locally. They alter water tables, draining local ponds, creeks and wells. How can we move forward supporting Plan B with this knowledge? Car Moose added two monitoring wells to their proffer package at the planning commission or planning staffs request but have made no commitment to stop mining if they see those wells actually draining. What will they do if they see that happen? We don't have any word from them. Car Moose mentions that they will use a tunnel beneath Bruce Town Road to lug materials between properties to decrease traffic. Do we have proof that their tunnel idea is actually viable? Last I had heard they didn't even have a permit or approval for the tunnel. If the tunnel falls through then what will happen? We'll have our hands tied as Car Moose utilizes alternate local roads for their lucrative business operations. Car Moose's proffer package also offers 1 million if for 30 consecutive days they exceed 400 ticketed trucks exiting their property and yet they will offer those numbers up readily. We have to go to them to check their daily records. Once that number has been exceeded they'll give us the 1 million and then what? They get to keep trucking as many trucks as they want for as long as they want. Finally let's pivot to the NELUP itself. Let me quote the currently adopted plan. Rural areas best exhibit the nature, beauty, view sheds and tranquility for which Frederick County is known. Preserving and protecting the rural areas. Can I finish? Fish Fault. Of Frederick County. I have a little bit more. Fish Fault. Fish Fault. Fish Fault. Fish Fault. Fish Fault. Fish Fault. Fish Fault fools. Fish Fault. Fish Fault. Fish Fault. Perpet what was said. Theu going. Fish Fault Llr olayl Ljow . Leaf And Miss Wy . Fish L dass. Wy Ner' diciendo Pexpol�를 correctly? niin.э . Yeah. O jaine . Sounds like edgy. Thank you. We can never get that back. Why are we so eager to drastically pivot from the plan we've had in place? Is this really what we want for our community? Thank you. Will Weber, followed by David St. Clair. Good evening, members of the board. Will Weber, Stonewall District. As a lifelong citizen of Frederick County of almost 40 years, I've watched many businesses come and go to our community. One of those businesses that's been a constant is the limestone quarry located in Clearbrook. This facility was started in the late 50s in a remote area of Frederick County and has provided quality limestone products to our community and others ever since. The products they produce affect every person in this room in our county every day of our lives. They employ over 100 employees from our area in their state-of-the-art facility and indirectly support the employment of countless others, such as construction workers, truck drivers, equipment mechanics, and many others. We are proposing in the NELIP for approximately 21,000 acres of development of some kind, all being built out of concrete, asphalt, steel, and stone. Wouldn't you want these products to come from local suppliers bringing jobs and tax revenue to our community? Regardless of what kind of development it ends up being, there will always be resistance. But personally, I would rather the development be from a company that has been a constant in our community for decades. They have supported our community by donating to local fire departments, helping with projects at schools, supporting 4-H, the Frederick County Fair, the Shenandoah Valley Museum, and many others. Carmoose has always worked with Frederick Water to provide current reservoirs of over 1.5 billion gallons of water with the availability for another 3 billion gallons of storage in the future. Pretty nice thing to have in the drought conditions we face this year. There are some that believe warehouse is a good place to live, but I don't think so. I think housing, business parks, and data centers is a better use of this property. Those options will create the same or greater amounts of environmental and infrastructure impacts, such as truck and passenger traffic, light pollution, and runoff with minimal green space. I encourage you all to vote for Scenario B and allow an existing business in our community to operate and help us build from years to come. Thank you. Thank you. David St. Clair, followed by Ryan Alvarez. Good evening. My name is David St. Clair. I am the Regional Environmental Manager for Carmoose. I'm responsible for the sites we have in Virginia. I've been asked to speak to a few questions raised in a letter to the editor in Winchester Star here a few weeks ago. These questions pertain to some air emissions and testing. Both Virginia and EPA require us to test our stack emissions regularly. We use Alfa-Lite. We use outside vendors to do this who are certified by EPA in these test methods. We have four continuous emissions monitors, two on each of our new state-of-the-art kilns, one that samples for particulate matter, the other for sulfur. These are operating any time our kilns are operating. They run 24-7. It's a permit requirement. We have no option. We have these monitors tested for accuracy annually. We bring in vendors who also do that or specialize in that. Other pollutants such as VOCs, particulate matter, nitrous oxides, and others are tested every five years. When we started up our kilns back in 2016, we were required to install two ambient air monitors off our property to test for particulate matter 2.5. That's the finer, respirable particulate matter, which also contributes to ozone. We had a consultant design. A DEQ approved for that. We had a DEQ approved plan for monitoring. Installed one sampler upwind and one downwind from our property. We operated these samplers for over two years. Results from these samplers were reported to DEQ monthly. The results showed that we did not contribute to any degradation of the area's ambient air quality. We have had one emissions exceedance, which occurred during our startup of our new plant during construction of a fabric filter, also called a baghouse. One of the filters was knocked off the support, and we did not catch that during construction. When we tested, we were over the limits for our PM 2.5. This is a perfect example why we have initial stack test performance testing done. We investigated and corrected the filter, tested again, and we were in compliance and have been ever since. I hope these answers address these questions that were raised. We just want to make sure since they were open-ended and not answered, we want to take the opportunity to answer those. Appreciate your time tonight. Thank you. Ryan Alvarez followed by Benjamin Starr. Good evening, members of the board. My name is Ryan Alvarez. I'm the Eastern Regional Buyer responsible for MRR purchasing at our Commerce Clearbrook operations in the Stonewall District. I asked to speak to you tonight because as a Commerce employee and as a Regional Buyer, I see firsthand the thousands of purchase orders and interactions that we have with the local businesses and vendors every year. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's my job to source products and services from the surrounding region in support of our operation in Clearbrook. At Corn Moose, we recognize the value of supporting our local businesses and keeping our dollars here within the community. At a time when so many companies have forsaken local businesses for e-commerce, be it to save on product, delivery cost, and expediency of delivery, we have made a concerted effort not to follow that trend. Locally, the Clearbrook operations totals 3.5 million dollars. We have a total of $10 million plus annually in spend to local vendors throughout Frederick County. I'm lucky to work with a management team here in Clearbrook that values relationships built with local businesses, both small and large, which also follows the core of Corn Moose and our company values. Consequently, we're a huge advocate of vetting and supporting new entrepreneurships and people starting businesses throughout Frederick County. We have a large contract with our operations and currently have a large amount of contracts, some over a three-year period, supporting services throughout our operations with some of those vendors here supporting us tonight. Recognizable names such as Carter Cat, Weber's Nursery, H.N. Funkhauser, H.H. Amstrucking, M&S Fabrication, James River Equipment, Johnny Blue, Martian Leg, Perry Engineering, Pine Knoll Construction, Schaefer's Barbecue and Junkyard, and many more. Thank you. We're proud to be a part of the Jordan's Barbecue as our team loves the local barbecue. Sullenburgers Hardware, as you all know, Blue Collar Mercantile, what used to be the Total Image and Working Man's Store, Winchester Metals, and literally hundreds of others in our area are businesses that we depend on like they depend on us. Sent to you by email, you have received numerous letters of support for our comprehensive plan amendment from some of these businesses and dozens of others. We understand the importance of strong community support for each other. Those letters of support represent more than a combined 1,000 years of doing business in this region and more than 1,000 employees here locally that help support this, and in turn, they help support us. These are the people in Frederick County that we sit under the Friday night lights at the local high school football game, whose children that play soccer with our own children on Saturday mornings, and we go to church with every Sunday. I ask you to consider everyone. Not just those here in this room tonight that will be impacted by your decision, and I urge you to adopt scenario B. Thank you. Thank you. Benjamin Starr followed by Joseph Brand. Point of order, Mr. Chairman. If I may, our rules state that at 11 o'clock we as a board decide whether we continue the meeting or whether we choose to recess. I'd like to have that discussion as a board before we go forward. Before we go forward in accordance with rules? We're in agreement on that. So right now, Mrs. Phillips, we have how many more people that have signed up? We have seven more on the list, plus the ones who did not sign up. All right. So for seven people, that's 21 minutes, and I would imagine we have at least another half hour or more of discussion. What's the board's pleasure on how long you'd like to do this one deal on? Mr. Chairman. And then... There's more to it. I understand. Go ahead. May I just provide a fact here to help that discussion? Mr. Bishop has indicated, owing to the fact of the cancellation of the last meeting, items 13B, Bravo, and 13C, Charlie, involve board resolutions that are necessary for VDOT applications that have a deadline before the next board meeting. So board action on those at this meeting is necessary. So if the board is looking at truncating tonight's agenda in any way, those items would really still need to be acted on. Other items could be postponed, but those items need action. So 13B, Bravo, and 13C. So Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. It would be my prerogative that we... It would be my prerogative that we continue for another hour until 12 midnight on this current item of 12D. And at 12 midnight that we consider the items that the county attorney brought forth, which was 13B, Bravo, and 13C. Does anybody else have any comments? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ludwig. On 13A, I believe that would be quick. That is someone who waited until like 11 PM at another very long meeting to get heard the first time. And I think we could cover that in short order as well. From my perspective, I think we ought to do 13A and B and C, take the time necessary to finish off this, then go forward. The time will be what it was. Maybe we can revisit it at midnight, but I think that A, B, and C on 13, we ought to try to consider. If there's a consensus on that? Is there a consensus on this? Mr. Keene. Okay. Mrs. Phillips, next person to speak. Benjamin Starr, followed by Joseph Brand. Benjamin Starr, Opecan District. I have some handouts I would like to, I guess, give to you. Thank you. Who gives a second? Mr. Keene. Mr. Keene. Mr. Keene. Mr. Keene. Mr. Keene. Mr. Keene. Before you begin, which side do you want us to look at? There's two sides. There's two sides. The side with two pictures is where we're going to start. Does anyone not? This side. Yes, sir. Okay. All right. Go ahead. So, can you guys hear me? Yes. Okay. So, my name is Ben Starr. I'm the mine engineer for the Winchester site. I'm kind of a quiet guy, being an engineer, but I just want to speak on this map, our current pit and our future pit. I've grown up in the Chando Valley, residing between Warren County, Chando County, and the Chando Valley. Warren County, Chando County, Frederick County for the last 36 years. I've been supporting the CARMU site here, as well as a few others, for 16 years. And tonight, I want to talk about the map that you guys have in your hands. So, on the front page, there's two pictures. There's one on your left and one on your right. The one on the left shows the current pit with the red outline around the pit. And it has offsets at 250, 500 feet, 1,000 feet, and 1,500 feet. Okay. And what I did was I looked at what houses and other notable community items were within these offsets. And in the current mining, the current mining footprint, where we are today, we have 18 homes within that 1,500-foot offset. And six notable community items, including the Stonewall Elementary School, Frederick County Fairgrounds, Clearbrook Park, the new water plant, post office, and the fire and rescue. There's also seven businesses within that 1,500-foot boundary. Again, the map on the right, if you look at the same offsets within that 1,500, there's three houses compared to 18 now, one of which we have already completed purchase of and we're in negotiation with another. There are no notable community items of reference, and there are only four businesses, and these of which are all west of the W&W Rail Line. So, by having the ability to look at the map, you can see that there are three houses within that 1,500-foot boundary. Okay. So, by having the ability to move our operation to the north bit, we will go from having 31 homes, businesses, and community assets down to a total of just seven. This visual shows that by moving our operation to the north, our impact, real or perceived, especially on surrounding neighbors, would likewise be greatly diminished. Please consider this and support NEILUP Scenario B. Thank you. Thank you. Joseph Brand, followed by Mike Weber. Good evening. Joseph Brand, Stonewall District. Pleasure to speak to you again. I'm here to speak in favor of Plan A because I believe that Frederick needs to grow and to expand his business base. I'm not too opposed to Carmoose here too personally, but I do really want to see more growth in this area. People have noted in prior Planning Commission meetings the presence of the high power lines that go through this proposed study area, which is very important. I would like to see more growth and not just more businesses, but more higher wage growth for people in this county. This county seems very stagnant in the blue collar industries with lots of warehousing and $15 an hour type jobs. And I would like to see more higher growth things. I'm tired of seeing people come up here and oppose business growth and it's hard to have two options here before you. We would like to see one more growth. We would like to see more high growth. you of which do you choose but with Plan B you continue more of the same there is no offer for more employment they're going to continue moving people from site a to site B and then trucking their stuff back to their account for production and the same exports per day they're allowing their business continue for the next 30 some years which isn't and I don't begrudge them wanting to do that with their business however I do see the opportunity for more growth and more industry in that northern area and that's what I like to be in support of I know there's lots of transportation issues to work out to get that to be viable but please plan on supporting plan a to grow into that area thank you very much thank you Mike Webber followed by Tim Stowe my name is Mike Webber from some wall district my parents moved here in 1946 to buy existing farm and garden center we've operated it you know we've got a lot of land and we've got a lot of land in the area we're we've got a lot of land in the area we're going to have a lot of land in the area we've got a lot of land in the area we're going to have a lot of land in the area we've got a lot of land and land y'all may call me John I think I wanted about you Brandon say you really understood the market. just to say that 50 years it's beenلم I probably educative state that has Alouette this county has worked for 77 years I have found over the years that just seems to really put it to existing businesses when you letting new ones come in every day I don't know why we don't preserve more agriculture in this area and there's ways to do it but we're not we're doing everything else I believe that if we're going to allow this plan to go through we should pick scenario B because we have a business has been here almost as long as my business I have seen them they buy products for me my son works at the fire hall all the time they they're helping them out all the time they give to all the local areas go behind me that a plant you're putting in that does nothing for the county gives nothing to any of the yard parties or the fire halls and helps out so we want to bring more of this now we're talking about data centers you moved away a lot of these people from DC and those areas to get away from this now you want to bring it here we don't need data centers and all these facilities they take a lot of water a lot of electricity that more traffic the traffic if they put in scenario B and expand this land is not going to increase at all the underground traffic we talked about the tunnel I've been through that tunnel 50 years ago it's not a new tunnel it's something that's existing and been used for years and years oh yeah it's a very old tunnel I've been seeing there for 40 years and maybe in a few years and I'll change I bought it the other day as far as for the Sache package and whether it becomes similar to what you said then we picked up this little building in the back of、、 I don't know if you have assistance telling the public you know this little分享 exc Rules of属 I think we've beenmals ahead of us again Unexpected something had no one to help and adds up which is 3 delivered over co2 SSDs is more for a moal to neutralization climbing into the FOAülA methods they said they didn't connect Snowden Bridge boulevard to snowden bridge which causes all the problem at old charlestown road that I heard tonightirone we reumming mightin ab to 1 and doing itb they said they�� they d Road we would eliminate a severe problem there especially for people like the fire hall how do they get out when traffic's backed up and you can't get in and out there's a lot of things have been said car moose has done a lot but every one of you walks lives in drives on their products used every day they have done a lot for this community there's time the big thing is we are not just going to have a hole in the ground when this quarry is gone we're gonna have another billion and a half to two billion gallon reservoir and this year we would have went if people would have drowned starved and went out a they they'd a parish because we wouldn't had enough water if we went to a Peckin Creek like it was until the quarry helped us out and saved this County with water thank you thank you Tim Stowe Thank you. Followed by Rick Till. I have a handout for you. Just wait till we finish this. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Yes. Thank you. Did you all hear that. JESSICA That was great. Thank you. Yes. Yes. Please have a seat and come forward and say hello to us May I ask on behalf of the County Board for theочwomen we e chris Sackbmist or renoun commerce at mycottd it's my choice to change the info definition for reports that i quote I quote Heura i want to say thank you to both yourt Ettler districtil and the I want to take a few moments and talk about traffic because there's stark differences between scenarios A and B when it comes to traffic. And we've talked about a lot of things tonight, but traffic is not one of the things we've talked about. I had the privilege back in 2010, when I was much younger and had much more color in my hair, to work with Mr. John Bishop when we did the traffic model for this same area for the comprehensive plan. I did that through the Planning District Commission, and we spent a lot of hours deliberating over land uses and how they would impact traffic. Tonight, I'm not going to look at the entire Neelup area because that's a huge area and there's a lot of things that are moving there. But I am going to talk to a specific area of Carmoose and what the traffic potential from the Carmoose property will be under each of these scenarios as well as under the existing comprehensive plan. I'll do this. This is based on the ITE trip generation manual, which is a nationally accepted standard and one that VDOT prescribes for folks like myself to use. On page two, you'll see the existing land use plan for long-range land use that Mr. Pearson had shown earlier in his presentation. I've put together a table based on the land that Carmoose owns north of Turkey Run. And that's... And that's... And that's... And that is about 587 acres that they own. You can see the industrial area, about 152 acres, is going to generate almost 9,000 trips a day. Heavy industrial, I'm not sure what that is. I'm envisioning smokestacks and other things because heavy industrial is heavy duty. That's about 8,400 trips per day. Warehousing, which generates a huge number of trucks. Huge. I mean, that's what it's all about is trucking and storing things. About 7,000 trips per day. There's a rural area that will generate some trips because folks will build houses on five-acre lots. And there's a sensitive area that would not be built on under that scenario. That's our existing scenario. And as you can see, that's a heck of a lot of traffic, almost 24... Over 24,000 trips a day. Now, for those that live up in the rest church area, I've studied this thing some through the years. There are, at present, in the peak hour, just a one-hour period in the morning, over 400 vehicles that are being built. They come down Route 11 from West Virginia, hang a right, go over and get on 81 and go south, and I don't know where they go from there. They come back in the afternoon during a one-hour period. It's incredible how much traffic comes through there, and it clogs up a lot of stuff. I will tell you that. Okay. If you look at page three, this is scenario A, and I've done the same thing. So, broken it down, the mixed-use industrial office space generates a lot of traffic. Individuals driving their cars generates a lot of traffic. About 46,000 vehicles. Industrial, about almost 9,000. Rural area, about 190 for a total of 5,500. And then scenario B, I've done the same with the extractive mining not increasing, or not generating new traffic. Industrial, because there is industrial land within the car moose of 7,700 and a rural area. The last page shows a table that compares these, and I'll just point out at the bottom, Brewstown Road. As reported by VDOT, currently carries about 3,500 vehicles a day. 81 between exits 321 and 323 carries about 53,000 vehicles a day. Scenario A generates over 55,000. Scenario B, about 7,800. From a traffic standpoint, scenario B is very appealing. Thank you very much. Thank you. Rick Till, followed by Brenda Fristow. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Rick Till, Opecan District, also chairman of the Frederick County EDA. And these comments that I made, most of them have been made at the community planning meeting with the NELUP, as well as the Planning Commission. Frederick County's mission, the EDA mission, is obviously to facilitate economic development for Frederick County, retention, expansion, and attraction of new businesses, creating high-quality jobs, capital investments, obviously tax revenue. So, we're excited to be here today to go with you with that. To succeed in this mission, we've just recently completed, which we shared in our joint meeting, targeted industries. And those targeted industries, three of them, three or four that we talked about, require robust, five megawatts or plus, and redundant electricity demands. And several speakers have talked about the power structure in this area. science, information technology, and advanced manufacturing. Those are the areas that we're talking about. Per conversation with electric providers, service directly from or in close proximity to these high transmission lines provide the best timing and lowest cost to provide electricity for these. The area under study in the NELIP possesses one of these high transmission lines, maximizing the competitiveness for attraction for those targeted industries. Also did a little research, the EDA has done some research using Conway Analytics, which is an economic database that talks about announcements in terms of the type of businesses. It shows that capital investment per acre is likely at least 20% higher when compared permitting uses in TM versus M1. And again. So if you've done this research applying some broad assumptions like you're developing 10 acres a year, it would generate about a million and a half over five years in terms of tax revenues for that. Moreover, the research also tells us that the average wages for businesses in a TM versus an M1 are expected to be higher than the county's average wage. So in summary, the Northeast Land Use Plan with more land designated for mixed use and industrial office would provide Frederick County with more tax revenue and above average wages. So to that end, Frederick County EDA highly encourages any update to the Northeast Land Use Plan to include a significant amount of land designated for mixed use industrial office in and around the area of high transmission lines. This designation includes for the EDA targeted industries, and this would greatly aid the mission of the EDA. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Brenda Fristow, followed by David Dixon. My name is Brenda Fristow, and I am with the Stonewall District. And thank you for all your hard work. I'm here tonight to ask you to vote for scenario A of the Northeast Land Use Plan, which aligns with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, no new mining. What thoughts does the following say? I'm going to ask you to vote for scenario A of the Northeast Land Use Plan, which aligns with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, no new mining. What thoughts does the following say? I'm going to ask you to vote for scenario A of the Northeast Land Use Plan, which aligns with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, no new mining. What thoughts does the following statement bring to your mind? Section 5.3, the authority's negative comments. The authority, Frederick Water, shall not intervene or interfere with Carmoose's applications for rezoning of the light and gum parcels, or either of them, for extractive mining. The authority shall neither publicly nor privately take a position with respect to Carmoose's application for rezoning of the light and gum parcels, or either of them, for extractive mining. The authority shall neither publicly nor privately take a position with respect to Carmoose's application for rezoning of the light and gum parcels. Thank you. By the clerk's approval, I notice you will now be securing official Hide ofme пох Och barn records It will remain withdrawable, it will be the crime of cowardice. Please excuse the brutal Fu вним lam. Fourth, I ask there to be a prio package in the Regalации highest powers clause 11-20-21-20 guerra to you about the situation. Once the land use changes to mining, Frederick County will be bound to accept the rezoning application. Don't forget this is the Northeast, the Southwest is coming next. Then the land will fall under the jurisdiction of Virginia Mineral and Mining and Frederick County loses oversight. This is the current footprint as a visual of the mining, current footprint in black. This represents what the new footprint is going to be. This represents the new footprint that you're voting on tonight. All this white, you're adding ten times the footprint for mining. Finally, let's talk tax revenue. And by the way, if you want to see how a real mine should do it and be a community-minded business, go to Rock Harbor Golf Course and look at the history and how it came about. That's from Stuart Perry. That's what a good neighbor does for their community. As a tax field auditor retired, the Northeast sector has unique attributes that provide decades of added tax revenue. I've shown some of you that. I've just done 1.06 acres and shown you that if you don't even do anything for seven years and you put one fast food restaurant in there, the B-Poll tax, the 1% tax sales tax that comes back, your meals tax, your real estate tax, I've shown you how much money that can bring in. I've sent that to each of you. So this can be generated at a slower pace. Thank you. The future value of this sector is extremely important to keeping our taxes low. Car Moose Expanding does and I add one dollar and and I appreciate all you hard workers that are doing this. Thank you. So the future value of this sector is extremely important to keeping our taxes low. Carmose Expanding does and I add one dollar and I appreciate all you hard workers that are supporting us. I think it's a great opportunity to make this happen. I'd love to hear from you. We'll see you next time. Thank you. Thank you. I do, but it does not add one dollar to our future. It does not add one job. They are not increasing production. The future value is a major factor. According to the Commissioner of the Revenue, Frederick Counties, the Stonewall District value land use prior to adjustments for 2023 is $2.6 billion. Redbud is $1.88 billion. If this Board votes for added extractive mining, all residential property within a 10-mile radius, not just these few homes, within a 10-mile radius, that's north, south, east, and west of this new mine, can file for a reduction in property value up to 5% and probably more, given the 200-foot high debris pile. To give you some perspective, this takes in all of Stonewall District and most of Redbud District. The Weldon Cooper Center, UVA, was very helpful in my search for this information. These studies are conclusive. The risk versus return on this vote is very clear. Your community has spoken. We're the voters, and we ask you to vote for no more mining. Thank you very much. Thank you. David Dixon. David Dixon. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. I understand there are others in the audience that wish to speak. For those that don't, would you like to speak, if you'd like to stand? Then we'll take one at a time, and we'll see what comes up. We have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Okay. Try to be respectful of time. Stand, and we'll start to pick people. First row, go ahead, sir. Good evening, Chairman. Member of the Board. My name is Ashby Spiker. I am the Plant Production Manager at the Carmoose Millertown Operation, which makes me a little bit different from all my friends here tonight from Clearbrook. I'll be the only one tonight from Carmoose Other Plants that's going to talk about Map A and its impact. I will answer two questions that should be on your mind when you think about which plant you will support. First, I would... The Clearbrook operation will be impacted by Map A, as chosen. A second, would other Carmoose operations in the area and other residents be affected in Map A, if chosen? First answer, the operation in Clearbrook will not go away. In other words, a vote for Map A will not put Carmoose out of business. Carmoose spent a lot of money on the Clearbrook plant, almost $200 million. And it will stay open for many more years and decades, no matter which way the Board decides tonight. Second answer, if we can't mine limestone from Area B, then we will have to haul it in from somewhere else when the time comes. That somewhere else will be our Middletown quarry that I oversee, and likely some from our other operation in Strasburg. All total, it will take... 250 trucks or so a day coming from through Middletown and headed to Clearbrook. That also means more traffic for the folks living in Clearbrook. I don't think they want that, and honestly, neither do we. As for Carmoose Middletown operation and Middletown residents, today they see a total of 25 trucks leaving the property at Middletown plant. The number would go up roughly 190 trucks a day. Our Strasburg operation will see another 50 to 60 trucks a day out of that operation. A lot of these trucks would probably use Route 11 through Middletown, so avoid the truck scales on Interstate 81. As the truck traffic increase to roughly 200 trucks per day, it will be huge for both the people in southern Frederick County and the north end of the county. To avoid this huge impact, we will only support Matt Beebe. Thank you. Thank you. Before you begin, perhaps those that do want to speak, if you just form a line behind this gentleman, that way we will be able to go and facilitate this. Name of Magisterial District. Bill Warner for Stonewall District. I support Plan A, and in the next 35 minutes I'll explain to you why. We'll be glad to give you 30, we'll be glad to give you three minutes and you can extract that. So I have a very unique perspective on this, because I wear many hats for the citizens of Frederick County. First and foremost, I've served on the work group, which we met about 15 times where we discussed all this. I also attended both of the community work groups that they had at the elementary schools down there during that time frame. I served on the committee for the CPPC. I served with the pleasure of the board of the Planning Commission. I attended a year and a half of the planning commission. I attended a year and a half's worth of meetings of the EDA to try to understand how they visualize the world. And currently also an elected official representing Winchester and Frederick County, Shandell Valley Electric Cooperative where I currently serve as the chairman of the board. And I'm a lifetime member and former chief of the Clearbrook Fire Department. So when you wear all those hats and you attend all those meetings, it gives you kind of a unique perspective. So we start off by attending the NEILUP work group meetings where we met about 15 times and we were told to try to visualize what you think this property would look like. Over a 50 year period. And then they brought in the electrical people and the gas people and the water and sewer and VDOT. And they gave us all this information on this is the resources that are available. And this is, you know, as we start painting that. So then as we start to plan and we talk about it and we made motions and we passed things through, took that information to the two elementary schools where they did a survey and came back. And I was there at both of them as well, you know, answering questions. And then our staff, I thought, did an excellent job. And gathering all that information for the 15 times the NEILUP got together and the elementary situation where the people there and put it together and came back with a plan. And of course it was sent to the CPPC and against my best efforts, they voted that down in one of the different scenarios, which is what you all got in scenario B. Which then of course came to the planning commission and again against my best efforts, they voted it down. I lost that one too. But I'm here tonight in hope that the Board of Supervisors can fix that right. And I think that's wrong. So I think the reason that the CPPC and the planning commission voted by the way that they did was I think they were wrongly influenced by zoning applications. You know, we're talking about comprehensive planning. We're talking about visioning out for the future. We're not talking about zoning at all. But I mean, even a lot of the comments tonight, we're talking about zoning and why this business is good or this business isn't good or whatever it is. You know, but that's not the discussion that we should be having when we're talking about comprehensive planning. So that's why that I believe that, all right, we're going to do this. I believe that our staff did an excellent job at putting everything together with all their education and all the resources that we had at the time and presented scenario A. And I'm here tonight to implore you guys to vote on scenario A. Thank you. Thank you. Your name and magisterial district, please. Good evening. I'm Terri Akins. I am with the Stonewall District. Thank you. I am, as I said, my name is Terri Akins. I am the Northeastern Regional HR Manager at Carmeuse. My office is located at the Clearbrook site. I am proud to be working with more than 200 regional employees. 103 of them are located at the Clearbrook location. As an employer, Carmeuse is the fifth largest family-owned company that stands out among many of the local employers. And the way it values, respects, and supports its employees and its community. I have been in HR for 24 years and with 14 of them in Frederick County. For decades, we have employed generations of families, their fathers and their fathers, now their children and even some of their grandchildren. I've counted on Carmeuse to provide them with stable employment to support their families. Our average hourly employee's wage is $27.50 per hour, which is significantly higher than the county's average of $19.51. For multiple years, we have multiple employees with 40 years plus service. Our turnover rate is 4%, which is very low and rare in the existing labor market. As you are probably well aware, many local employers cannot say the same. What really makes me the most proud to be part of the Carmeuse community is the fact that we have a strong relationship with our local employees. What really makes me the most proud to be part of the Carmeuse team is the way it is committed to the community, which is something that we should not take for granted. Their generosity and willingness to partnership with a variety of organizations and charities should be an example to some of the larger employees within the county that only focus on profits and more profits. Consistently, we have sponsored, supported, or otherwise partnered in a variety of ways with the following organizations. These völlig Bonaccom, Frgrcil and Reginaldo Champions of Hope, Frederick County National Little League, the Winchester Royals, the Topper Virginia Hockey Alliance, the Winchester Little League, James Wood Athletics, James Wood Diamond Club, Shenandoah Club, Shenandoah Warrior Club, and Shenandoah High School Band Boosters. I'm sure I've missed some, but I want to thank you for the opportunity to let me speak this evening. I hope that you were making your decision tonight to support scenario B and think of Carmuse is not just as Corey, but as a dedicated supporter to this community and a stable long-term and valuable employer to its employees. Thank you. Hello Board, thank you for your dedication tonight. Name and measure, please. My name is Rob Sprague. I'm a, I reside in the Opecan District in Frederick County for more than 25 years. Thank you. I'm the project manager, Carmuse Clearbrook operations and other sites in this region as a capital PM, I felt obligated to speak to you guys and compelled to share with you the significant capital investment that our company has made to this area. The Carmuse is totally committed to Frederick County in the long term. Since 2016, Carmuse invested 192 million dollars in a Clearbrook operation. To put this in perspective, that would be Frederick County building four new Aylor Middle Schools in just six and a half years. middle schools in just six and a half years. The construction of the capital investment injected another 12 million dollars in the local economy annually. That's another 50 jobs from 16 to 22. In 22 alone the day-to-day operations generated 52 million dollars of economic impact for Frederick County, supporting more than 100 local jobs. The Clearbrook site averages paying more than a million dollars in local taxes since 2017. My goal tonight is not to bore you with with financial stats, but my point is that unlike a lot of comprehensive plan management requests you receive, Carmuse is a great company to work for. Carmuse is already here, already operational, and already significantly contributing to the better for every Frederick County resident. The vote for Plan B, which is all Carmuse's plans, is a great opportunity for us to work together to improve the future of our state. The vote that Carmuse is asking for tonight will demonstrate that you're open to the idea of significant economic impact for the benefit of the future. So I appreciate your consideration and thank you for your time tonight. Thank you. Michael Wilmeth, I'm a resident of the Redbud District. I'm also the mining engineering manager for Virginia. Earlier this evening you heard an update from Eric Lawrence about the status of the new Slowinski treatment plant located just a few hundred yards south of the Carmuse Clearbrook plant. Frederick Water, as you know, provides water to more than 18,000 local homes and businesses, equating to approximately 50,000 people or nearly 50% of the county's population. Over the past 20 years, Frederick Water has drawn an average of 1.8 million gallons of water per day from the Carmuse pits just north of Bruce Town Road to be treated at the Legacy Anderson plant. Prior to the water deal with Carmuse, Frederick Water's primary plan was reliant on drawing water from the Peckin Creek, which today in the midst of the historic drought, is only a few inches deep. Carmuse and Frederick Water also recently completed a pipeline agreement to transfer raw water from the current Anderson plant to the Slowinski storage basin, that will allow the county to pull from reservoirs holding more than 3.1 billion gallons of static water. That's billion with a b. That's enough water to supply all of Frederick Water's customers for an entire year without a drop of rain. I'll add Carmuse is contributing approximately 1 million towards the construction of the new pipeline, and instead of tying that to a zoning proffer, chose to put the county and Frederick Water's interest ahead of our own, and construction on that pipeline across the property has already begun. The happenstance at tonight, Carmus would share the same agenda as the Frederick Water update and the board's ratification of a drought warning declaration in Frederick County is timely, if not ironic. In times like these, with drought declarations being adopted up and down the Shenandoah Valley, significant growth coming to the area, we cannot help but think that if scenario B is approved, the new pit could become another future valuable water resource for the county. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Dylan Clark, Stonewall District. I'm the production manager for our quarrying and crushing operations at Carmus here in Frederick County. I've lived in Virginia all my life. I've lived in this valley since 2015. Me and my wife moved here after college. We built a house here in 2018. My wife began work here as an attorney in 2021, and we welcomed our son here last year. So like many of the people here, this is our home. So I'd like to read an excerpt from a letter that was shared with you yesterday from the director of operations at York Ag. For those of you that don't know, York Ag is a leading supplier of calcium chips for the poultry industry. It's a necessary dietary supplement for poultry health and well-being. Mr. Dreyfus said, if for any reason the unique and very specific grade and sizing of high calcium limestone supply at the Carmus operation in Clearbrook, Virginia were to be impacted, it could have a damaging impact on the food supply throughout the entire mid-Atlantic. Given the proximity to such a large portion of the U.S. population within a few hours' drive, this would undoubtedly impact the pricing, and availability of eggs and other poultry products for nearly 20% of the population. So this little quarry for the 20% of the population. York Ag states that they pride themselves in locating, securing, and supplying difficult to find ingredients for the diverse animal species. This quarry has been the primary source of these calcium chips to New York, from New York to North Carolina since the mid-1980s. That's only the first time we've seen calcium chips in the food supply industry. We've seen them in the food industry for almost 40 years of partnership. Members of the board, that's why we're in this valley. We have members of our team here with us today that have worked here for those 40 years that we've been in partnership with York Ag. We've got those members that have followed in the steps of their father and their grandfathers before them. All I'm asking is that you afford our sons and daughters that same opportunity, that you afford my son that same opportunity. Thank you. Please support Option B. Thank you, John. Thank you, John. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Logan Thompson. I'm the site manager for Carmeuse. I'll be speaking on behalf of Carmeuse and the Clear Brook Operation in the Stonewall District. Folks, if Scenario B is adopted, we know it doesn't mean our rezoning is adopted, although we've heard many things about proffers tonight, and we'll probably hear more things that are proffer-related even before the night's over. I had a speech written. I feel compelled to just touch on a couple of things as we wrap up tonight. First, traffic. More with scenario A with no road improvements. Second, the mountain. No change with scenario A, lowered with scenario B. Water and homes. Ben showed. Further away, less impacts with scenario B. Tunnel, used in both scenarios. No change. We're going north across the road anyway. Water storage. More in scenario B. In both cases, scenario A and scenario B, Carmuse owns the land north of Turkey Run. We bought it for the limestone of that unique grade in chemistry that Dylan just talked about, and we are going to hold on to that land to develop a plan, work with the county, and at the time is right, use that land for what we bought it for. If scenario B is not adopted, the other localities in this county will be impacted. I can't stress that enough to you. Scenario A is going to put more traffic on the roads in Clearbrook, and it's going to affect the traffic in other localities of this county. There's not a perfect solution here, but scenario B is closest to the have your cake and eat it too. And if you support that, it means you'll be supporting a business and an industry that's literally the foundation of our society. Limestone mining in the valley started in the 80s, and it's been around since the 1800s. Carmuse and its predecessors have been operating in Clearbrook for more than 60 years. This is not just some new multinational coming to town. You've read in every Carmuse article in the newspaper, an introductory line that says something to the effect of Carmuse, an international mining company with operations in Frederick County. And on its face, that's right. But let me tell you who we really are. We're Sherando, James Wood, Millbrook, Hanley, Jefferson County, Strasburg graduates, we're Lord Fairfax graduates, we're Virginia Tech graduates. We live here, we shop here, we grew up here, and we're going to stay here. And we're here because this land, in this small area plan of Frederick County, I'm talking 2% of 21,000 acres, has something that almost no other place in the region has, and that's access to chemical-grade limestone reserves next to a mine. And we're here because this land, in this small area plan of Frederick County, has something that almost no other place in the region has, and that's access to chemical-grade limestone reserves next to a mine. I humbly ask that you just give us the chance to get to the rezoning phase, to work with you on a plan, and address concerns you've heard tonight. I appreciate your time, and I urge you to vote for Scenario B. Thank you. Good evening, I'm Mark Regan and reside the Stonewall District. I stand before you tonight to voice my deep concern regarding the proposed update to the comprehensive plan that would allow Carmose Lime and Stone to expand its quarry and mine additional acres. As a resident living within close proximity to the current operations, I've experienced firsthand the negative impacts that this industry has had on our community. In 2011, a conflict of interest arose when one of the supervisors had business dealings with Carmose Lime and Stone. Thankfully, the supervisor recognized this conflict and abstained from voting on the expansion proposal. However, it's disheartening to see that the industry that in a subsequent meeting in 2013, the same supervisor chose to comment and vote on the matter of a height waiver for the Carmose kilns, neglecting to recuse themselves as before. The consequences of this decision are now evident. The environmental impact of the kilns, which was initially misrepresented as one kiln, but turned out to be two, built by Carmose Lime and Stone, can be detrimental to our air quality. The emissions of nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, and other harmful substances can pose a significant threat not only to our health, but also to the delicate balance of our ecosystem. The very existence of these kilns contradicts the spokesperson's claim that they would improve the air quality. Also, the expansion of the core brings with it a host of other issues, including property damage from blasting, disruption in water wells, noise pollution, unsightliness, and increased dust. For about a decade, residents like myself have been subject to these detrimental effects and would have a profound impact on our quality of life. Allowing the expansion and bringing it closer to our homes are only worse than these problems. Therefore, I say to each and every one of you to carefully consider the long-term ramifications of approving this update, the comprehensive plan. Our community deserves protection and preservation, not further expansion of a core that already has caused so much harm. Let us prioritize the well-being and safety of our residents over the interest of a single applicant. Please unanimously vote for Plan A. Thank you very much. Thank you. You are very welcome. Thank you both. Mr. Chair, I would like to街 Governor MacTagg邊 sounded to the ability to это you to wheelchair service AS part of that CD Biden's fair business and 이� hebben Theater President $60, bunch deck I wouldn't have. Hi, I'm Cindy Burns, Stonewall District, and I just wanted to say thank you to all of you for your time and your commitment to your positions. I moved to this area only about a year ago because I thought it was incredibly beautiful and rural, and after buying our home here, we learned about the expansion. It's in our backyard, which is somewhat devastating. We worry about our property value and all things that other people have already mentioned tonight, and I won't go back into it. But I just keep thinking it reminds me so much of a television show that I've been watching recently called Yellowstone. And if you have never seen that, the theme of it is a big company that makes a lot of money, and they want to expand, and they want to make more money. They don't really care about the people that live right next to the mine. They don't really care that much about the community. They don't care what they do to the environment. They want to make more money. And I just wondered as I was sitting in the back of the room tonight, looking at all the folks from Karmus here, on one hand, I appreciate what they're saying. They all have jobs because of Karmus, and it helps support their families. But I wonder how many of them have backyards that back up to the new mine. And I don't know. It's just upsetting. I hope you'll consider voting for Scenario A. Thank you. Thank you. Kay Dawson, Redbud District, former member of the Planning Commission. And I probably know as much about Karmus as any of you, because I've studied it a lot, done a lot of research. And Clorox, let's just talk about Clorox. A small group of people. Clorox. A small group of people, primarily from the Stonewall District, managed to get that tanked. And that affected our tax base dramatically. And guess what? The plant went to West Virginia. And guess what? The trucks from Karmus are all on 81 going to West Virginia. So that whole deal backfired on those people. And I don't want this to go on. And as far as people... Living by the quarry, they bought a house by the quarry. That's what's going to happen. If you buy a house by an airport, you're going to have noise. So if you buy a house or build houses as someone who just spoke, and then you feel, I guess, a little guilty about it, because people are living in these houses by the quarry. But the quarry's always been there. That's it. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else that would like to speak? The name of the Magistrate of the District. Hi. Tina Reiner, Stonewall District. I'm not a speaker, but some of these things that some of these people have said... I didn't come here and just build a house near the quarry. I've lived here in Brewstown for almost 63 years. And that quarry's been out there all that time. And growing up as a child, we didn't have the issues of the quarry the way that there is now. We have the noise. We have the dust. We have the dirty water. And yes, Carmos, I'm glad these people have great jobs, but I wish that they would have to live here with the quarry right next to their home or within just a couple miles. I'm two miles, and we have all of this going on. Carmos can give money to everybody. But what about the people whose homes and families are taking a hit because of the things going on? I would just urge you all to vote for Plan A. There's time in the future if you want to go the other route. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Hearing none then, I'll close the public hearing. So we have a comprehensive plan amendment for our thieves. It's in Stonewall. Mrs. Slaughter. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'd like to address the many residents, workers, and so forth that have spoken to us tonight on this issue. I continue to support your perspective that scenario A is the preferred outcome for our community. Unfortunately, the confusion created by the proposed rezoning applications for Fruit Hill and Carmos has created an undue influence. I would like to address the following questions on what was supposed to be a land use planning initiative. In turn, to make sure all the good work done by our staff, and we're going on almost two years now, is not tossed aside, I would offer a motion to adopt the common elements shared by scenario A and B of the northeast land use plan. But to leave the future land use designations and any text related to Fruit Hill, Carmos, and other land use plans, I would ask that the Board approve the proposed land use plan as it is currently in the adoptive comprehensive plan this Board approved on November 10th, 2021. And that concludes the motion. Thank you. Second. And Mr. DeHaven just seconded it. So, discussion. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. Mr. Graver. I'm getting ready. This plan ultimately affects my district just as intimately, I would say, as it does the residents of Stonewall. The quarry in Middletown has the approval presently to expand their mining operations and will expand their mining operations to meet the needs of the kilns in Clearbrook. The Town Council of Middletown voted unanimously and overwhelmingly, and I've received multiple e-mails from the council, and I'm going to read them out to you. I'm going to read them out to you. I'm going to read them out to you. I've received multiple e-mails, phone calls, overwhelming support for Scenario B for the specific reason of Middletown is a one-lane road. Stephen City is a one-lane road. I know they voted as well. Overwhelming support for Scenario B. There's going to come a time in the not too distant future where the available lime is mined out of the current mining operations in Clearbrook. They're going to have an opportunity to do one of two things. One, they're going to have to do one of two things. Two, they're going to have to do one of two things. Haul stone out of the Middletown quarry, which is what they will do. Or shut down the Clearbrook quarry, which will not happen. So we know what they're going to do. They're going to truck the 200 truckloads a day that they can get out of Middletown, because that's what they're capped at is 200 loads. And the rest is coming out of Strasburg, which will absolutely devastate my district. The proposed quarry, the proposed pit, the proposed pit for the new area will have a relatively small impact compared to the impact that the original pit has had. And this map that was just shown proves that. For all the stories, and I'm going to call them stories, that I've heard about traffic, you folks are simply having blinders on. We had an engineer show us tonight the trip traffic, which is over 55,000 trips, if Scenario A is adopted. Scenario B, somewhere around 10,000, 10,000 to 12,000 trips. There is no comparison. There's no way I can support the scenario that has been presented this evening as it will just decimate the residents of my district. I would implore my fellow supervisors to consider this as well. The food that you eat, the chicken, the poultry products. The aggregate that is used every day in our county. in our county, the jobs, the secondary tertiary businesses. We cut off our nose to spite our face with the kitty litter factory. We got a wonderful present called Snowden Bridge. How long are we gonna keep kicking ourselves in the butt and not doing the right thing? The kitty litter plant took their jobs, took their tax base and went just across the line. They're still getting stoned from our quarries. It's time that we take a long look at what we're doing and do the right thing. Scenario B is the only option that we should choose. We cannot support what's proposed and we'll vote against it. Thank you. Thank you. Other comments by other board members? Mrs. Lederick. I want to piggyback off of what Mr. Graber just said. My whole life growing up here, I'm a resident of Frederick County, and Carmoose has been here since the 50s. So the whole time growing up, that is the mine. It wasn't Carmoose then, but that is what that has always been. And I've gotten some emails in regards to moving here, and if you have not done your due diligence, and I can sympathize with somebody who's been here 60 years or longer who was here maybe at the same time the quarry began. But beyond that, if you didn't do your due diligence and see that mountain there, again, I can sympathize. But Snowden Bridge, I've gotten some comments, and their water supply is coming from the reservoir that the quarry, that's where their water is coming from. So I don't know if they're not aware of that or whatever, but with the drought that we just had, they may not have had water during all of that for the past two months if that reservoir did not have that water supply. Again, what you said, trucks, traffic, our infrastructure in this area cannot handle those trucks. And I've spoken with a lot of people in regards to this. I don't even know where my train of thought is. I must be getting late. Anyways, I fully support scenario B. Thank you. Mr. Ludwig? I have studied this one quite a bit as well. It's not in my district, but it affects us all and it's a big impact on the county, the decision we make. I have toured the mine and seen the operation. Thank you very much. And I've also met some of the people that are here. I've seen the people that are here. I've seen the people that are here. And I've also met some of the people that are here. And I've also met some of the people that are here. And I've also met some of the people that are here. And I've also met some of the people that are here. And I'mック with the citizens, groups, many of whom spoke tonight and got their impression of what they prefer, those who oppose it. And I'm a little frustrated because we are asked to choose between two scenarios, scenario A and B. And to me, what it comes down to is scenario A isn't going to happen. deb is tochn Right to Àtonn?어요 So when we compare economics and say, well, we could dream of the things we could could do with their land. I guess we're planning on taking it from them, I don't know. The company is very much a long-range planning company as that industry has to be and my belief is that they're gonna hold on to the land until the day comes when they get permission to mine it. So scenario A, I suppose if they're allowed to mine when the mine is finished they do plan on turning it into something like scenario A. It would then be developed into business but that would be in the far future. What will happen then if we vote for scenario A? Unfortunately what will happen is that exactly as Supervisor Graber said, other mines will be expanded. The operation we've already get permission, two hundred million dollars has been invested in it here, is going to continue and all that limestone will have to be trucked across 81, down Route 11, across perhaps around the City 37. It's just reality that mining right next to the operation and transporting the limestone through a tunnel directly to where it's processed is vastly less impactful in the negative sense on the county than any other option that we've considered today. So after giving this great thought and paying much attention to all the comments and letters I've gotten, I have to believe that scenario B is the future of that land. Thank you Mr. Chairman. You're welcome. Is there anybody else here that wants to talk? Mr. DeHaven, do you want to make any comments or shall I make some comments beforehand? Let's call the question. I'd like to make a couple comments, sir. I'm going to ask a question. Okay. I spent a lot of time working through this. I'm trying to find something that works for everybody here. There are people in here in favor of A and people here in favor of B. The supervisor from Stonewall has basically laid out a proposal that says the common elements of A and the common elements of B are in our proposal. The areas that are in dispute, namely Carmoose and Fruit Hill, are, if this passes, are under the current plan. The current plan. Under the current plan, Carmoose already has a rezoning application. Now I would encourage them to continue that rezoning application. They put that under the current plan and we can work with them. I've spoken to proponents and opponents of both sides and from my perspective I'm trying to find something that works for both sides. I'm trying to find something that works for both sides. I'm trying to find something that works for 90% or so of everybody involved. That's going to take work on everybody's part. I fully understand it's not going to satisfy everybody. But I think that the proposal put forth here by Mrs. Slaughter tries to address that. Carmoose can continue their rezoning application as they have said they wanted to do. I think it gives the county an opportunity to try to work together to solve this problem. So I would support the proposal. Mr. Slaughter's proposal. Are there any other comments? Yes, sir, Mr. Dunn. It appears to me that you would like to own an ice cream truck because you're trying to make everybody happy. And that's about the only way that you can do that is to buy an ice cream truck to make everybody happy. We've got to be realist here. And to be a realist, we have to look long term. Long term, if we go with scenario A, or the proposal that is currently in place, we're going to have to look long term. Long term, if we go with scenario B, if we go with scenario C, we're going to have to look long term. But what I'm trying to understand is that we are going to have to work together. Mr. Slaughter, what you said about the proposal that is currently being proposed here, it is a long drawn out situation where there's going to be 263 trucks a day transversing through Middletown and Stephen City. Clogging up our roads up there in Clearbrook that we've already heard multiple times tonight are overwhelmed. For what? For what? There's land there. It's huge. It's a lot. It's huge. It's a lot. It's a lot. It's a lot. It's a lot. It's a lot. It's a lot. It's a lot. It's a lot. It's a lot. set up to be developed for this. It's close by. It has the appropriate stone that can be utilized for these operations. There's a stable company there. Why do we want to upset the apple cart at the present situation with what we have? I'm not saying that we give them any special privileges. That's not what I'm asking for here. I'm asking to let the business operate, to expand like we would want any other small business in Frederick County to do. Why are we going to pick winners or losers? That's not our job. We've talked about property rights tonight. We've heard it over and over and over again. Where are theirs? Yes, it doesn't matter if it's a large company. Thanks for allowing me to share my thoughts. Thank you. Anyone else have any comments? No, Mr. Chairman, if you could call for the question, please. We'll call the question. So, this is the letter's proposal, which says, the common elements of A and B will be included in the areas in dispute, namely Carmoose and Fruit Hill, will stay under the current comprehensive plan. Mrs. Lockridge? No. Mr. Graber? No. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? No. Gun votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Aye. Motion passes. The next piece of business is Supervisor Ludwig's request on a discussion to vote on a previous proposal. Mr. Ludwig? Thank you. Let me switch over to my notes here now after that. Thank you. So, at a previous, this meeting that we successfully held, we voted to deny a CUP, Conditional Use Permit 03-23 for Candace London DVM and Frank Zurich. I voted in favor of that denial, and now I motion to rescind that vote in light of the fact that I visited the facility, and I believe there's more information. The vote was four to three. So, I'm going to vote no. If everything else held the same, that would make a decision for one of our constituents in the county. So, that's my motion to rescind and reconsider tonight our vote on CUP 03-23. Is there a second? Second. Is there a discussion? Mr. Chairman? Go ahead. I must recuse myself from this vote. As the last time that this vote was taken, I did not know that I had a business relationship with the applicant in question. I have since been notified that I have. So, I must recuse myself of any vote taken on this matter. Anybody else? In that case, the vote to rescind. Mr. Ludwig. Is there a discussion on this, sir, or do we go straight to vote? No, no. If you want to make some further comments, discussion, we have a proposal and a discussion, so go ahead. Yeah, so when we, it was similar to the kennel we heard about today. The numbers we got in the packages and presented to us led me and led many of us to believe it was a different, different operation from what we now know. The numbers seemed to suggest there would be a hundred dogs on the property, and didn't give me much of a impression of what that would be like for the neighbors. And so I followed the recommendation of the supervisor of that district. Afterward, I spoke to the people who were very nice. They weren't as angry as most people are when they have a CUP denied. And they invited me to visit their operation. They have already as many adult dogs currently as they would have under the CUP. And they're very small dogs. They cannot be heard from off the property any distance whatsoever. The puppies are very tiny and are housed indoors. I spoke with all the neighbors. I was also told that no one had visited their property before, I don't know why that was, neither a supervisor, not a supervisor, not a supervisor, not a supervisor, not a supervisor, not a supervisor, not a supervisor, not a supervisor, not a supervisor, not a supervisor, or a planning commissioner had been there. So I was very happy to go and get a firsthand look. I mean, we have conditional use permits because there are some things in the county that are by right, you should always be able to do it, some things you can not do in the district you're in. But some things might be appropriate, and they deserve all of our attention. So I visited, I saw the operation and the condition of the animals, and I knocked on the doors of the neighbors, all the adjacent neighbors. properties and none of them were opposed. To be perfectly fair, two of the three adjacent neighbors were not very strongly opinionated either way. They felt their neighbors were good and the dogs never bothered them and that was good for them. The third neighbor had had some noise problems but had been happy that the owners had worked with them and made changes to their setup and their construction that runs that the dogs use so that it reduced the noise. And when I asked them to think about their opinion as if it was the deal breaker, their answer was, you know, we think we would be in favor of the CUP because the CUP creates better conditions, it sets county rules, the dogs have to be in by a certain time. So I concluded that all the neighbors were unified in being supportive of this to one degree or another. So the fear that I got from the presentation and the numbers we had that we were talking 100 dogs which just seemed to be too much is not the case whatsoever for this facility. I do believe in people's rights as long as they don't impinge on their neighbors, that's what land rights are all about. If you have a property, and you have a property, and you have a conditional possible use, and all your neighbors tell the county that this would not impact adversely on them, then why would we deny a land use right when absolutely none of the neighbors are harmed or object? So with that said, I hope you will support me in rescinding our previous vote. Thank you. In that case, any other discussion? That's a call for the question. This is a motion to rescind our previous vote. And if this passes, then there will have to be a motion to approve or deny. So this is a motion to rescind the previous vote. Mr. Ludwig. Aye. Mrs. Slaughter. No. Mr. Wells. No. Mr. Graber is recused. Mrs. Lockridge. Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. DeHaven. Aye. And the motion passes. We said that then. There's a motion to approve or deny. This was in Opec and Mr. Wells. I'll give you the courtesy if you want to make a motion either way. Well, sir, I'll defer to Mr. Ludwig. He seems to know more about Opec. Okay. Mr. Ludwig. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I make a motion to approve CUP 0323 for Canis London DVM, and Frank Zurich. I'll second that. Discussion? If not, we'll vote. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Slaughter. No. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. Chairman. Aye. That was aye. Aye. All right, motion passes. There are two more items and then we will leave. Okay. I think finished here. There's a capital improvement plan, minor update. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board for your forbearance, and these two items go hand in hand. It's the same projects for both items. To begin with, we do have a minor update to the capital improvement plan. Two items. The first is to clarify costs on two projects and to add three projects to the end of the priorities list so that they're specifically called out in the CIP. The specific reason for that is by being specifically called out, they score better in the grant application. So those are as follows. We have updated the cost on project 16, Route 11 at Shawnee Drive, widening and intersection improvements, as well as on the Warrior Drive, extension and associated Brandy Lane upgrade by Sharando High School. And then the addition, once again, at the end of the list of the Warrior Drive pedestrian improvements, the Valley Mill Road pedestrian improvements, and the Inverleigh Way pedestrian improvements. If you would like more detail, I do have graphics available to share with you, but these are applications you previously approved. All right. Staff, do you have any other questions? So what you want from us is the approval of this. I apologize. I am seeking approval of the updated capital improvement. All right. Mr. Chairman. Do I hear a motion? I make a motion that we update the capital improvement plan with the amount of updates as listed in our packet. Second. Discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. Motion passes. Next item. Yes, sir, Mr. Dunn. As noted, we are seeking resolutions of support for the same five projects I have just listed off as being clarified within the CIP. This is a required element of the grant application. That is for the three pedestrian projects, which are under the Transportation Alternatives Program. That particular program is 80% federal funds managed by VDOT and 20% local funds. And the other two projects are revenue sharing program applications, which are 50% state funds and 50% local funds. Thank you. Mr. Chairman? Do I hear a motion? Make a motion that we adopt the resolution in support of the Transportation Alternatives and Revenue Sharing as presented. Discussion? Hearing none. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. Chairman? Aye. Motion passes. So. Mr. Chairman, I make a motion that we adjourn. Quick comment. I was just wanting to ask staff, we can do that. These other two items can be pushed back to the October meeting? Absolutely, sir. All right. In that case, is there anything else before Mr. Graber's motion to adjourn? Hearing none, is there a second? Second. All in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? We're adjourned. Second. All in favor? Aye. Thing not aye. All in favor, impealed. On. Ein. False.TOH-aları. Woilie? Sie. Lierl. Vaccinate. On. Yuri. Dibuya. Dibuya. Moved by varianth. Stero. Thank you.
